[2017] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

Muhammad Safwan Anang v.
PP & Another Appeal

91

MUHAMMAD SAFWAN ANANG v. PP & ANOTHER APPEAL
COURT OF APPEAL, PUTRAJAYA
MOHTARUDIN BAKI JCA
ZAKARIA SAM JCA
PRASAD SANDOSHAM ABRAHAM JCA
[CRIMINAL APPEALS NO: W-09-7-2016 & W-9(H)-9-01-2016]
20 DECEMBER 2016
CRIMINAL LAW: Sedition Act 1948 – Section 4(1)(b) – Appellant accused of
making seditious comments while giving public speech – Whether statements made
had seditious tendency – Whether conviction safe
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Appeal – Appeal against conviction and sentence –
Appellant accused of making seditious comments while giving public speech –
Whether statements made had seditious tendency – Whether conviction safe

D

E

F

The appellant, being dissatisfied with the results of the general election, gave
a public speech which was alleged to incite the public to gather and protest
against the Government. Following the event, the appellant was charged at
the Sessions Court under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948 (‘Act’)
punishable under s. 4(1) of the Act. The Sessions Court convicted the
appellant and sentenced the appellant to ten months’ imprisonment. On
appeal to the High Court, the High Court affirmed the conviction of the
appellant but substituted the custodial sentence of ten months’ imprisonment
with a fine of RM5,000 and should there be failure to pay the fine, a two
years’ imprisonment would be imposed on the appellant. Dissatisfied with
the decision of the Sessions Court and the orders of the High Court, the
appellant appealed to the Court of Appeal. The principle issue that arose for
determination was whether the statements made in the public speech was
seditious pursuant to s. 4(1)(b) of the Act.

G

Held (allowing appeal; discharging and acquitting appellant)
Per Prasad Sandosham Abraham JCA delivering the judgment of the court:

H

(1) All the appellant said in his statement was to go out and protest.
Nowhere in the impugned statement was there any element tending to
make the Government insecure and the statement does not have a
seditious tendency. In the circumstances, a prima facie case had not been
made out against the appellant in the Sessions Court. (paras 9 & 11)

I

(2) An evaluation of the seditious statement must be undertaken by the
court and the court must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt and
must honestly believe that the statement in question is seditious,
pursuant to s. 4 of the Act and read together with s. 3 of the Act. The
court must positively assert in its grounds of judgment a specific finding



Current Law Journal

92

[2017] 4 CLJ

that the court honestly believes after undertaking that evaluation the
statement in question is seditious to justify a conviction of sedition. The
failure to do so by the court would amount to a serious misdirection in
law which would render a conviction unsafe. (paras 14 & 15)
Bahasa Malaysia Headnotes
Perayu, tidak berpuas hati dengan keputusan pilihan raya umum, telah
memberikan ucapan awam yang didakwa menghasut orang ramai untuk
berkumpul dan membantah Kerajaan. Berikutan kejadian tersebut, perayu
dipertuduh di Mahkamah Sesyen bawah s. 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan 1948
(‘Akta’) yang boleh dihukum bawah s. 4(1) Akta. Mahkamah Sesyen
mensabitkan perayu dan menjatuhkan hukuman sepuluh bulan penjara
terhadap perayu. Atas rayuan kepada Mahkamah Tinggi, Mahkamah Tinggi
mengesahkan sabitan perayu tetapi menggantikan hukuman penjara sepuluh
bulan kepada denda sebanyak RM5,000 dan sekiranya terdapat kegagalan
untuk membayar denda, hukuman penjara dua tahun akan dijatuhkan
terhadap perayu. Tidak berpuas hati dengan keputusan Mahkamah Sesyen
dan perintah Mahkamah Tinggi, perayu merayu ke Mahkamah Rayuan. Isu
utama yang dibangkitkan untuk pertimbangan mahkamah adalah sama ada
kenyataan yang dibuat dalam ucapan awam adalah berunsur hasutan menurut
s. 4(1)(b) Akta.
Diputuskan (membenarkan rayuan; melepaskan dan membebaskan
perayu)
Oleh Prasad Sandosham Abraham HMR menyampaikan penghakiman
mahkamah
(1) Apa yang dikatakan oleh perayu dalam penyataannya adalah untuk
keluar dan membantah. Tidak ada apa-apa elemen dalam kenyataan
yang dipersoalkan yang berunsur menyatakan Kerajaan tidak selamat
dan kenyataan tersebut tidak mempunyai kecenderungan menghasut.
Dalam keadaan ini, satu kes prima facie tidak berjaya dibuktikan
terhadap perayu di Mahkamah Sesyen.
(2) Satu penilaian terhadap kenyataan hasutan perlu dilaksanakan oleh
mahkamah dan mahkamah mesti berpuas hati melampaui keraguan
munasabah dan mesti secara jujur percaya bahawa kenyataan tersebut
adalah menghasut menurut s. 4 Akta dan dibaca bersama s. 3 Akta.
Mahkamah harus secara positif menegaskan dalam alasan
penghakimannya suatu dapatan khusus bahawa mahkamah secara jujur
percaya selepas menjalankan penilaian bahawa kenyataan tersebut
adalah hasutan untuk mewajarkan sabitan bawah hasutan. Kegagalan
untuk berbuat demikian oleh mahkamah merupakan kekhilafan yang
serius dalam undang-undang yang boleh menyebabkan sabitan tidak
selamat.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2017] 4 CLJ
A

B

Muhammad Safwan Anang v.
PP & Another Appeal

93

Case(s) referred to:
Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP & Another Appeal [2016] 8 CLJ 15 CA (refd)
Melan Abdullah & Anor v. PP [1971] 1 LNS 77 HC (refd)
PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580 CA (refd)
PP v. Oh Keng Seng [1976] 1 LNS 108 FC (refd)
PP v. Ooi Kei Saik & Ors [1971] 1 LNS 113 HC (refd)
PP v. Param Cumaraswamy (No 2) [1986] 1 LNS 88 HC (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Sedition Act 1948, ss. 3(1)(b), 4(1)(b)

C

For the appellant - Ariff Azami Hussein & Azizzul Shariman; M/s Azizzul & Ariff
For the respondent - Muhammad Azmi Mashud; DPP
[Appeal from High Court, Kuala Lumpur; Criminal Appeals No: 42(S)-115-09-2014
& 42(H)-117-09-2014 (overruled).]

Reported by Sandra Gabriel
D

JUDGMENT
Prasad Sandosham Abraham JCA:
Introduction

E

F

G

H

[1]
The appellant was charged in the Sessions Court (Criminal) Kuala
Lumpur under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948 (Act 15) punishable under
s. 4(1) of the same. The charge brought against the appellant is set out in toto
including the statement addended to the said charge marked as lampiran A,
(see grounds of judgment of the Sessions Court pp. 14 -17 RR). The Sessions
Court convicted the appellant and sentenced the appellant to ten months’
imprisonment effective from 11 September 2014, (see p. 47 RR). On appeal
to the High Court, the High Court affirmed the conviction of the appellant
but substituted the custodial sentence of ten months’ imprisonment with a
fine of RM5,000 and should there be failure to pay the fine, a two years’
imprisonment will be imposed on the appellant.
[2]
The appellant was dissatisfied with the decision of the Kuala Lumpur
Sessions Court and the orders of the High Court and now appeals to the Court
of Appeal. The appeal was heard on 18 July 2016 wherein the court reserved
judgment and our judgment is accordingly delivered.
Material Facts
[3]
The material facts of this case are elucidated from the grounds of the
learned Sessions Court Judge. The facts are set out as follows:

I

(i) Pada tarikh 13 Mei 2013, jam lebih kurang 8.00 malam, Pengadu
Inspektor Awang Jaafar Bahagia bin Awang Salihin (SP4) telah
menerima arahan daripada Pusat Kawalan Dang Wangi untuk
dibuat pemantauan dan kawal selia di Dewan Perhimpunan Cina
Jalan Maharaja Lela Kuala Lumpur pada malam itu memandangkan



94

Current Law Journal

[2017] 4 CLJ

telah mendapat maklumat akan berlangsung satu ceramah di dewan
tersebut dan mendapat arahan untuk dibuat pemantauan kawal selia
supaya tidak timbul apa-apa kekecohan yang boleh menggugat
keselamatan.
(ii) Satu taklimat ringkas untuk penugasan tersebut telah adakan di
mana pengadu telah memanggil kesemua anggotanya yang terlibat
berkumpul di Balai Polis Tun HS Lee dan nyatakan kepada semua
anggota ini bahawa satu maklumat ceramah akan diadakan di
Dewan Perhimpunan Cina dan adalah tugasan untuk mengawal
selia, menjaga aman supaya tidak timbul apa-apa insiden yang tidak
diingini atau kekecohan semasa ceramah tersebut berlangsung.
(iii) Perhimpunan tersebut dianjurkan oleh Solidariti Anak Muda
Malaysia dan Solidariti Mahasiswa Malaysia.

A

B

C

(iv) Pada jam 7.50 malam, pengadu bergerak ke Dewan tersebut dengan
menggunakan kenderaan pasukan manakala anggota lain pula
bertolak menggunakan motosikal masing-masing.
(v) Setibanya di dewan jam 8.00 malam dan mendapati ramai orang
mula berpusu ramai yang baru sampai masuk ke dalam dewan, ada
yang berada di luar dewan menunggu majlis tersebut bermula.
(vi) Pengadu pecahkan penugasan anggota untuk membuat pemantauan
di dalam dan di luar dewan, di mana pengadu membuat
pemantauan di luar dan dalam dewan.

D

E

(vii) Program ceramah di dewan tersebut bermula lebih kurang jam 8.50
malam dan lebih daripada 10 orang yang dijemput untuk memberi
ceramah termasuk tertuduh sekali iaitu Muhammad Safwan bin
Awang @ Talib.
(viii) Terdapat pembesar suara iaitu P.A. system dan speaker yang
diletakkan di dalam dan di luar dewan. Begitu juga, screen yang
menayangkan ceramah yang berlangsung serta suasana di dalam
dewan berada di dalam dan di luar dewan juga.
(ix) Pengadu bertugas bersama-sama anggotanya iaitu Inspektor Mohd.
Kamal Faridi bin Akmal (SP1), Kasmi bin Luatak (SP2) dan Lans
Koperal Thomas Anggit (SP3) untuk membuat pemantauan
perhimpunan tersebut dengan membuat rakaman untuk
keseluruhan ceramah yang disampaikan oleh para penceramah dan
di dalam perhimpunan tersebut.
(x) Keterangan daripada saksi SP1, SP2 dan SP3 juga mengesahkan
bahawa tertuduh merupakan salah seorang penceramah di dalam
perhimpunan tersebut di mana SP2 telahpun merakam ceramah
tertuduh, manakala SP1 pula menyediakan transkip ceramah yang
disampaikan oleh tertuduh seperti mana terdapat pada
Lampiran A pertuduhan.

F

G

H

I



[2017] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

Muhammad Safwan Anang v.
PP & Another Appeal

95

[4]
The appellant in the arguments presented before us raised several
points, ie, whether the impugned statement was intended to be seditious in
its effect, and the lack of clarity in the charge of the appellant. All these
points are really water under the bridge in light of the decision of the Court
of Appeal in PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580 and the recent
Court of Appeal majority decision of His Lordship Mohtarudin Baki JCA in
Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP & Another Appeal [2016] 8 CLJ 15 (Criminal
Appeal No: W-05(S)-66-03-2014) wherein His Lordship had dealt in extensio
with all these points raised.
[5]
The only point in this appeal in our view is whether the statement is
seditious pursuant to s. 4(1)(b) of Act 15. To determine whether the
impugned statement is seditious ie, has a seditious tendency, one must look
at s. 3 of the Act and in our particular case s. 3(1)(b) which we now set out.
Seditious tendency

D

3. (1) A “seditious tendency” is a tendency:
(b) to excite the subjects of any Ruler or the inhabitants of any territory
governed by any Government to attempt to procure in the territory of the
Ruler or governed by the Government, the alteration, otherwise than by
lawful means, of any matter as by law established;

E

F

G

H

I

The Court of Appeal in PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh (supra) accepted the
reasoning of the court in Public Prosecutor v. Ooi Kee Saik [1971] 1 LNS 113
and the definition of the words, “to excite”.
[6]
We are of the view whether or not the impugned statement attracts
seditious tendencies is a matter to be evaluated by the court on an objective
basis taking into account the natural meaning of the words or the words in
the statement used (see PP v. Ooi Kei Saik & Ors [1971] 1 LNS 113; [1971]
2 MLJ 108). To transcend into being a seditious statement, the court must
find that it has crossed the boundaries of acceptable political comment
permissible under the law and transcended into the realm of sedition. The
decidendi in the aforesaid Karpal Singh’s case (supra) very clearly sets out this
requirement that a court should undertake and we quote from para. 73 of the
case which adopts the principles in PP v. Ooi Kee Saik (supra) ie, the judgment
of His Lordship Ahmad Maarop JCA (as he then was):
[73] Seperti yang telah kami nyatakan, mahkamahlah yang mesti
memutuskan sama ada perkataan-perkataan responden itu menghasut
atau tidak (lihat PP v. Mark Koding). Mahkamahlah yang mesti membuat
garis yang memisahkan pandangan atau komen politik yang dibenarkan
oleh undang-undang dari perkataan-perkataan yang menghasut. Hal ini
dijelaskan oleh mahkamah dalam PP v. Ooi Kee Saik:
A line must therefore be drawn between the right to freedom of
speech and sedition. In this country the court draws the line. The
question arises: where is the line to be drawn; when does free



96

Current Law Journal

[2017] 4 CLJ

political criticism end and sedition begin? In my view, the right to
free speech ceases at the point where it comes within the mischief
of section 3 of the Sedition Act. The dividing line between lawful
criticism of Government and sedition is this - if upon reading the
impugned speech as a whole the court finds that it was intended
to be a criticism of Government policy or administration with a
view to obtain its change or reform, the speech is safe. But if the
court comes to the conclusion that the speech used naturally,
clearly and indubitably, has the tendency of stirring up hatred,
contempt or disaffection against the Government, then it is caught
within the ban of paragraph (a) of section 3(1) of the Act. In other
contexts the word “disaffection” might have a different meaning,
but in the context of the Sedition Act it means more than political
criticism; it means the absence of affection, disloyalty, enmity and
hostility. To ‘excite disaffection’ in relation to a Government refers
to the implanting or arousing or stimulating in the minds of people
a feeling of antagonism, enmity and disloyalty tending to make
government insecure. If the natural consequences of the impugned
speech is apt to produce conflict and discord amongst the people
or to create race hatred, the speech transgresses paragraphs (d) and
(e) of section 3(1). Again paragraph (f) of section 3(1) comes into
play if the impugned speech has reference to question any of the
four sensitive issues - citizenship, national language, special rights
of the Malays and the sovereignty of the Rulers.

A

B

C

D

E

[7]
In paras. 4-9 of the learned Sessions Court’s grounds of judgment
(pp. 44-47); the learned judge undertakes what purports to be an evaluation
of the impugned statement.
[8]
In para. 4 at p. 44 the learned Sessions Judge finds that the lanes of
political comment had been crossed and that there was an intention to
commit sedition. The learned Sessions Judge further found the appellant
being dissatisfied with the results of the general election was now inciting the
public to gather and protest against the Government to cause a change of the
Government by unlawful means.
[9]
The learned Sessions Judge failed to address her mind or in the
alternative apply the test set out in Karpal Singh’s case (supra). All the
appellant said in his statement was to go out and protest. To register
dissatisfaction and lack of confidence in the ruling Government of the day,
but nowhere in the impugned statement was there any element tending to
make the Government insecure. At any rate, there were sufficient laws in
place to ensure that these demonstrations were carried out in accordance with
law.
[10] To our mind, it is clear that since this is possibly the only plausible
defence to a charge of sedition, after it has been established that the statement
has been made by the appellant and the statement remains unchallenged, the

F

G

H

I



[2017] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

Muhammad Safwan Anang v.
PP & Another Appeal

97

court must in our view make a positive assertion in its grounds of judgment
to say that the court honestly believes that the words uttered were seditious
or not. In our particular case, we can find no such assertion in the grounds
of judgment of the learned Sessions Judge.
[11] Having perused through the statement ourselves, we are satisfied that
the statement does not have a seditious tendency. It would follow therefore
that the prosecution failed to prove a prima facie case against the appellant in
the Sessions Court and therefore the appellant should have been acquitted.
We refer to the judgment of Court of Appeal in PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram
Singh (supra), para. 101 at p. 649 which illustrates the approach that the court
must take in considering the impugned seditious statement and we quote:
[101] Kami menyedari dan sentiasa akur bahawa di peringkat ini pun
dalam menimbangkan sama ada pihak pendakwaan telah membuktikan
satu kes prima facie terhadap responden, kami mesti mempertimbangkan
sama ada terdapat keraguan yang munasabah dalam kes pihak
pendakwaan. Jika terdapat keraguan yang munasabah kes prima facie tidak
terbukti (lihat Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85). Setelah menimbangkan
dengan teliti perkataan-perkataan responden seperti dalam P3 ayat demi
ayat dan menimbangkan perkataan-perkataan tersebut secara
keseluruhannya serta konteks dalam mana perkataan-perkataan tersebut
disebut, dan setelah memberikan latitude sebanyak yang wajar kepada
responden untuk memberikan komen politik dan pandangan undangundang sebagai Ahli Parlimen dan peguam kanan yang terkemuka, tiada
keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa berdasarkan kepada undang-undang
yang berkuatkuasa kini dan keterangan yang dikemukakan di mahkamah
di peringkat ini, responden telah melepasi garis yang memisahkan
pernyataan perkataan-perkataan yang dibenarkan oleh undang-undang
dengan pernyataan perkataan-perkataan menghasut. Tiada keraguan di
fikiran kami bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden itu bukan perkataanperkataan yang mempunyai kecenderungan untuk menunjukkan bahawa
DYMM Sultan Perak telah terkeliru atau tersilap. Oleh itu di peringkat ini
pembelaan di bawah s. 3(2)(a) Akta 15 adalah tidak terpakai. Kami berpuas
hati bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden mempunyai kecenderungan:
(a) bagi mendatangkan kebencian atau penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia terhadap DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(a) Akta 15;
dan

H

I

(b) bagi menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau tidak setia di
kalangan rakyat DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang diperuntukkan di
bawah s. 3(1)(d) Akta 15.

[12] We suggest that the “tooth comb” approach of His Lordship Ahmad
Maarop JCA (as he then was) must be the cornerstone of the approach the
courts should take in deciding whether the impugned word has a seditious
tendency. We note that is glaringly absent in this case (see grounds of
judgment of Sessions Court Judge at p. 47 RR Jilid 2).



Current Law Journal

98

[2017] 4 CLJ

We also quote para. 71 of the same judgment which quoted the Federal Court
decision of PP v. Oh Keng Seng [1976] 1 LNS 108:

A

[71] Apa yang dimaksudkan dengan pertimbangan tentang keseluruhan
perkataan-perkataan yang didakwa menghasut telah dijelaskan oleh
Mahkamah Persekutuan dalam PP v. Oh Keng Seng (supra):
We are only in partial agreement with what the learned trial judge
considered to be the proper approach to the question as to whether
those parts of the speech now alleged by Mr. Mahalingam to be
seditious are indeed so. We agree that particular words or
sentences taken out of context “may sound obnoxious or
innocuous and that this might convey an altogether wrong
impression”. However to say that to determine whether particular
passages are seditious the speech in which such words are uttered
should be read as a whole is, with respect going too far if by that
is meant that in a long speech two passages (or for that matter
four) cannot be seditious if numerous other topics discussed are
not seditious. At most one could say that the speech as a whole
would assist in giving the court a proper perspective of, and so
assist it to decide whether the passage giving offence were mere
episodes of over exuberance in a speech coming fairly under the
exceptions envisaged in section 3(2) or something more than that.

[13] We refer to the case of PP v. Param Cumaraswamy (No 2) [1986] 1 LNS
88; [1986] 1 MLJ 518 and the judgment of His Lordship NH Chan (as he
then was) firstly on the question of disaffection found at p. 524 para. D-G
and further at para. B-D p. 525 and we now quote:
“Disaffection”: I shall start with “disaffection”. Disaffection, in the
context of sedition, does not mean the absence of affection and regard,
it means disloyalty, enmity and hostility: See per Latham C.J. in Burns v.
Ransley at p. 109. See also Dixon J. in the same case, at p. 115:
Disaffection is a traditional expression but it is not very precise. It
means an estrangement upon the part of the subject in his
allegiance which has not necessarily gone as far as an overt act of
a treasonable nature or an overt breach of duty. It supposes that
the loyalty and attachment to Authority, upon which obedience
may be considered to depend, is replaced by an antagonism,
enmity and disloyalty tending to make government insecure.
I can say at once that the statement did not have the tendency to incite
or to raise disaffection among the people. In my judgment, the statement
did not contain words which were capable of advocating or encouraging
the people to disloyalty. There was no tendency in the words which could
create antagonism, enmity and disloyalty among the people to make the
government insecure.

At p. 525 paras. B-D:
Where there is no jury, a judge has to ask himself if it is in his honest
judgment that the statement was likely to create dissatisfaction among the
people. If it is likely to do that then the statement is seditious. If in his

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2017] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

Muhammad Safwan Anang v.
PP & Another Appeal

99

honest judgment he does not think that the words were likely to create
dissatisfaction among the people, then he has to find that the words are
not seditious. In my judgment, I do not think that words which were used
to point out to the Pardons Board that the people should not be made
to feel that the Board was discriminating between Mokthar Hashim and
Sim Kie Chon are words which were likely to create discontent or
dissatisfaction among the people.

[14] We have perused through the grounds of judgment of the Sessions
Judge and we do not find any assertion by the Sessions Judge to that effect.
It is further our view in light of the fact that a statement carrying the
presumption of seditious tendency is almost akin to an offence of strict
liability, the court must scrutinise and independently evaluate the impugned
statement to see whether the language used comes within the bounds of
sedition rather than free speech; and failure to do so, by the court in our view
amounts to a serious misdirection in law which would render a conviction
unsafe.
[15] We therefore find that there must be in cases of sedition an evaluation
of the seditious statement that must be undertaken by the court and the court
must be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt and must honestly believe that the
statement in question is seditious, pursuant to s. 4 of the Act and read
together with s. 3 of the same and must positively assert in its grounds of
judgment a specific finding that the court honestly believes after undertaking
that evaluation the statement in question is seditious to justify a conviction
of sedition as the prosecution would be deemed to have proved its case as
required by the law.
[16] We also refer to the decision of Ong CJ in the case of Melan Abdullah
& Anor v. PP [1971] 1 LNS 77; [1971] 2 MLJ 280 at para. I which illustrates
this point and we quote:
To sum up on the law, once the conclusion is reached that the
sub-heading offends against the absolute prohibition imposed by
paragraph (c) of sub-section (2) on any matter specified in paragraph (f)
of sub-section (1) the prosecution would have proved their case to the hilt.
The sub-heading clearly violated what is laid down in proviso (a) to article
152(1) of the Federal Constitution. It therefore comes squarely within the
definition of “seditious tendency” as extended by paragraph (f). On this
point I think a few words may be usefully be added by way of explanation.
By virtue of the 1970 amendment of the Sedition Act, “sedition” no
longer requires the same judicial approach as the misdemeanour at
common law. The amendment was ad hoc legislation, passed to meet the
special needs and circumstances of the times. The duty of the court is to
interpret and uphold the law as passed by Parliament. Whether or not
paragraph (f) fits into the common law concept of sedition is wholly beside
the point. It does give, however, a new and, perhaps, highly artificial
meaning to what used to be considered "seditious tendencies". English



100

Current Law Journal

[2017] 4 CLJ

and Indian authorities are, therefore, of little relevance and are not
referred to herein. In my view paragraph (f) is unique in that it raises a
presumption of law that anything falling squarely within the terms thereof
has a seditious tendency, irrespective of whether or not such thing sows
any seeds of disaffection.

A

[17] On the upshot in the present case, we find that a prima facie case had
not been made out against the appellant in the Sessions Court as the statement
in question was not seditious and therefore the conviction of the appellant
in Sessions Court upheld by the High Court should be set aside and the
instant appeal be allowed. The appellant is acquitted and discharged and the
appeal by the prosecution in W-09(H)-9-01-2016 is consequently dismissed.

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

