[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

MALAYSIA
IN THE HIGH COURT IN SABAH AND SARAWAK
AT MIRI, SARAWAK
[CASE NO:MYY-45B-3/11-2016]
BETWEEN
PUBLIC PROSECUTOR

… PROSECUTION
AND
… 1 st ACCUSED

MOHAMAD FITRI PAUZI
JOINTLY TRIED WITH
CASE NO:MYY-45B-4/11-2016
LIE CHANG LOON

… 2 nd ACCUSED

CASE NO:MYY-45B-5/11-2016
CHIN WUI CHUNG

… 3 rd ACCUSED

CASE NO:MYY-45B-1/1-2017
LEE CHEE KIANG

… 4 th ACCUSED

CRIMINAL LAW: Murder - Penal Code, s. 302 - Deceased was shot
dead by accused - Deceased suffered several gunshot injuries Wounds on neck and head - Circumstances evidence - Accused and
deceased involved in land dispute - Whether elements of offence of
murder fulfilled - Whether wounds on neck and head were sufficient in
ordinary cause of nature to cause death immediately - Whether
weapon used was functional - Whether shotgun was fired with
intention of causing death or knowledge that it will cause death
CRIMINAL LAW: Abetment - Commission of crime - Abetment of
murder - Penal Code, s. 107 - Whether prosecution had tendered
evidence to prove that abettors had instigated and conspired with
main accused in murder

1



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

[Prosecution failed to establish prima facie case against 2 nd , 3 rd
and 4 th accused and 2 nd 3 rd and 4 th accused was discharged and
acquitted from charge. Prosecution successfully established prima
facie case against the 1 st accused and 1 st accused called to enter
defence.]
Case(s) referred to:
Belhaven & Stenton Peerage [1875] 1 App Cas 278 (refd)
Chan Chwen Kong v. Public Prosecutor [1962] 1 LNS 22 CA (refd)
Chandrasekaran & Ors v. Public Prosecutor [1970] 1 LNS 11 HC
(refd)
Chong Soon Koy v. Public Prosecutor [1977] 1 LNS 20 FC (refd)
Ghambhir v. State of Maharashtra AIR [1982] SC 1157 (refd)
Idris v. Public Prosecutor [1960] 1 LNS 40 HC (refd)
Mah Hong Ching & Anor v. PP [2007] 2 CLJ 292 CA (refd)
Pathmanabhan Nalliannen v. PP & Other Appeals [2017] 4 CLJ 137
FC (refd)
PP v. Abuchi Ben James [2015] 8 CLJ 1011 CA (dist)
PP v. Gobinath Alfonso A Kuppusamy [2009] 8 CLJ 255 HC (dist)
PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457 FC (refd)
PP v. Yong Ngie Ung [2016] 1 LNS 1152 CA (refd)
Pulukuri Kotayya v. King Emperor 74 IA 65 (refd)
Sunny Ang v. Public Prosecutor [1965] 1 LNS 171 FC (refd)
Sukhvinder Singh Naldip Singh v. PP & Another Appeal [2014] 5 CLJ
574 CA (refd)
Wai Chan Leong v. Public Prosecutor [1989] 1 CLJ Rep 171 SC
(refd)
Legislation referred to:
2



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Arms Act 1960, s. 2
Criminal Procedure Code, ss. 180, 402B
Evidence Act 1950, s. 27
Firearms (Increased Penalties Act) 1971, s. 2
Penal Code, ss. 107, 299, 300(c)

JUDGMENT
Introduction
[1] On 21 st June 2016, one Bill anak Kayong was shot dead at a
traffic light intersection in Miri. Four accused persons were charged
in separate cases in connection with the killing. At the outset of the
trial, the prosecution successfully applied for a joint trial for all the
four cases. In Case MYY-45B-3/11-2016, Mohamad Fitri Pauzi was
charged with murdering Bill anak Kayong. The charge reads as
follows:
“That you MOHAMAD FITRI PAUZI (KPT-870604-13-5627)
on 21 June 2016 at about 8.20 a.m., at a traffic light intersection
near E-Mart supermarket, Jalan Kuala Baram Bypass, in the
district of Miri, in the State of Sarawak, did commit murder by
causing the death of BILL ANAK KAYONG (KPT: 731208-135051), and you thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 302 of the Penal Code [Act 574].”
[2] The three other accused persons were charged with abetting
Mohamad Fitri Pauzi to commit the said murder. In Case MYY-45B4/11-2016, Lie Chang Loon was charged as follows:

3



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

“That you together with one Stephen Lee Chee Kiang and
another person who are still at large, on 21 June 2016 at about
8.20 a.m., at a traffic light intersection near E-Mart
supermarket, Jalan Kuala Baram Bypass, in the district of Miri,
in the State of Sarawak, abetted one MOHAMAD FITRI
PAUZI (KPT: 870604-13-5627), in the commission of murder
of BILL ANAK KAYONG (KPT: 731208-13-5051), which
offence was committed in consequence of your abetment and
that you have thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 109 of the Penal Code [Act 574] read together with
section 302 of the same Code.”
In Case MYY-45B-5/11-2016, Chin Wui Chung was charged as
follows:
“That you together with one Stephen Lee Chee Kiang and
another person who are still at large, on 21 June 2016 at about
8.20 a.m., at a traffic light intersection near E-Mart
supermarket, Jalan Kuala Baram Bypass, in the district of Miri,
in the State of Sarawak, abetted one MOHAMAD FITRI
PAUZI (KPT: 870604-13-5627), in the commission of murder
of BILL ANAK KAYONG (KPT: 731208-13-5051), which
offence was committed in consequence of your abetment and
that you have thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 109 of the Penal Code [Act 574] read together with
section 302 of the same Code.”
In Case MYY-45B-1/1-2017, Lee Chee Kiang was charged as follows:
“That you together with one Lie Chang Loon (NRIC: 79010513-5729), one Chin Wui Chung (NRIC: 660411-13-5705) and
another person who is still at large, on 21 June 2016 at about
8.20 a.m., at a traffic light intersection near E-Mart
supermarket, Jalan Kuala Baram Bypass, in the district of Miri,
4



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

in the State of Sarawak, abetted one MOHAMAD FITRI PAUZI
(KPT: 870604-13-5627), in the commission of murder of BILL
ANAK KAYONG (KPT: 731208-13-5051), which offence was
committed in consequence of your abetment and that you have
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 109 of
the Penal Code [Act 574] read together with section 302 of the
same Code.”
[3] All accused person were represented by retained counsel.
Initially, Mr. Ranbir Singh indicated that he and Mr. Arthur Lee
would jointly represent Mohamad Fitri Pauzi and Lie Chang Loon.
However, after I queried whether that arrangement is prudent, Mr.
Ranbir Singh said that he will act for Mohamad Fitri Pauzi and that
Mr. Arthur Lee will act for Lie Chang Loon. Accordingly, I let the
record reflect that all accused persons are separately represented in
this trial. For ease of reference, in the notes of proceedings and in this
judgment, Mohamad Fitri Pauzi, Lie Chang Loon, Chin Wui Chung
and Lee Chee Kiang are also referred to as the 1 st accused, 2 nd
accused, 3 rd accused and 4 th accused respectively. Finally, I must
mention that the 4 th accused, Lee Chee Kiang is also referred to as
Stephen Lee Chee Kiang in some of the documents, including the
consent to prosecute.
[4] At the close of the case for the prosecution, learned DPP
submitted that it had established a prima facie case against the 1 st
accused, Mohamad Fitri Pauzi. He is the principal offender in this
case. The learned DPP did not submit that there was a case to answer
by the other three accused persons who had been charged with
abetting the 1 st accused to murder Bill anak Kayong (the deceased). I
enquired whether it was an omission but the learned DPP replied that
the evidence pointed to only one accused person. This is reflected in
the notes of proceedings as follows:

5



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Court: At the last page at paragraph 3: offence under section 302
and you referred to the accused person in the singular and no
submission on abetment.
DPP: All the accused being charged under section 302.
Throughout the evidence adduced, it clearly shows that it points
to only one particular accused person.
Nonetheless, as the case against the alleged abettors has not been
discontinued by the Public Prosecutor, as a matter of law, the court is
obliged to consider all the evidence tendered by the prosecution and
rule whether there is a case to answer by all the accused persons.
Summary of case for prosecution
[5] The prosecution called a total of 28 witnesses. I shall first
summarize the case of the prosecution before proceeding to consider
the evidence in support of the ingredients of the offence of murder
and abetment against the accused persons.
On 21 st June 2016, at about 8.45 a.m., P.W. 8 was on his way home
when he noticed that a Toyota Hilux bearing registration number
QMU 6462 had stopped at the traffic lights intersection near E-Mart,
Jalan Kuala Baram Bypass. It did not move when the lights changed.
He also saw gunshot marks on the driver’s side of the Toyota Hilux.
He immediately called the police. The patrol car officers arrived at
the scene at 9.06 a.m. They cordoned off the area around the Toyota
Hilux with traffic cones and yellow police tape while waiting for an
ambulance team and the investigating officer of the case. The
investigating officer of the case, Inspector Lee Chee Keat (P.W. 28)
and the ambulance team arrived soon after. The medical assistant
(P.W. 7) confirmed that the deceased had died and that there was
injury to the right side of the neck.

6



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

[6] Inspector Lee commenced investigations immediately. The body
of the deceased was sent for autopsy. It was identified by the widow
of the deceased (P.W. 10). Witness statements were taken from a
number of people. Apart from P.W. 8, another passer-by, i.e. P.W. 9
testified that he was at the traffic lights in question on that fateful day
when he heard a gunshot. He saw that the glass window of a Toyota
Hilux had cracked.
[7] On 30 th June 2016, the police arrested Mohamad Fitri Pauzi (1 st
accused) at the Central Police Station in Miri. On the same day, Lie
Chang Loon (2 nd accused) was arrested near a restaurant in Miri. On
18 th August 2016, Chin Wui Chung (3 rd accused) was arrested in front
of the Central Police Station by DSP Soliment Nyian (P.W. 24). The
4 th accused, Lee Chee Kiang was arrested much later after the 1 st to
3 rd accused persons were charged in court. He was arrested at the
Kuala Lumpur International Airport on 13 th December 2016 by the
investigating officer, ASP Lee Chee Kiat (P.W. 28). No reasons for
his late arrest were furnished by the investigating officer.
[8] The prosecution’s case against the 1 st accused is built on
circumstantial evidence. Evidence was led that the 1 st accused had
asked one Lau Lee Shen (P.W. 25) to keep a shotgun for him. The
prosecution tendered forensic evidence to the effect that the same
shotgun was used to kill the deceased in this case. A face mask was
found inside the shotgun bag and upon DNA analysis it was found to
match the DNA profile of the 1 st accused. The prosecution also led
evidence through P.W. 20 that the 1 st accused was one of two accused
persons who entered the land belonging to longhouse residents in
Bekelit and had threatened them.
[9] The crime scene investigator (ASP Mohamed Nizam) analyzed
the trajectory of the gunshot that hit the Toyota Hilux driven by the
deceased. He theorized that the fatal gunshot was fired at the deceased

7



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

by a shooter who was in a car that is lower in height than the Toyota
Hilux. One Sim Chien Hui (P.W. 27) led the police to the discovery of
a white Proton Wira sedan car bearing registration number MA 8686
Q. A Science Officer, Farah Ad-Din (P.W. 18) testified that gunshot
residue (GSR) was found inside the car. However, Sim Chien Hui
(P.W. 27) was ultimately of little assistance to the prosecution. He
and another witness (Paul Boniface anak Ampuan, P.W. 26) were
impeached by the prosecution when they departed from their section
112 statement by saying they had no knowledge at all about the case.
[10] In respect of the prosecution’s case against the alleged abettors,
i.e. Lie Chang Loon (2 nd accused), Chin Wui Chung (3 rd accused) and
Lee Chee Kiang (4 th accused), very little evidence was tendered by the
prosecution witnesses. No incriminating evidence at all was tendered
in respect of the 2 nd accused. In respect of the 3 rd accused, P.W. 20
alleged that he had threatened villagers in Bekelit. In respect of the
4 th accused, evidence was led that he had apologized for the behaviour
of a certain “Ah Lek” who had issued threats against the employer of
the deceased.
Whether prima facie case established?
[11] The test of a prima facie case is whether the prosecution had
adduced credible evidence to prove each ingredient of the offence
which if unrebutted or unexplained would warrant a conviction
(section 180 of the Criminal Procedure Code). In the case of PP v.
Mohd. Radzi bin Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457, the test of a prima
facie case is stated as follows:
“… ask yourself the question: If I now call upon the accused to
make his defence and he elects to remain silent am I prepared to
convict him on the evidence now before me? If the answer to
that question is “Yes”, then a prima facie case has been made
8



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

out and the defence should be called. If the answer is “No” then,
a prima facie case has not been made out and the accused should
be acquitted”.
[12] In the instant joint trial, the charges are in respect of two
offences, i.e. the principal charge of murder against the 1 st accused
and the charge of abetment against the other three accused persons. I
shall first consider the case against the 1 st accused.
[13] The elements of the offence of murder are found in sections 299
and 300 of the Penal Code. Section 299 defines culpable homicide as
follows:
Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of
causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily
injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he
is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence of
culpable homicide.
Section 300 reads as follows:
Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is
murder(a)

if the act by which the death is caused is done with the
intention of causing death;

(b)

if it is done with the intention of causing such bodily
injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death
of the person to whom the harm is caused;

(c)

if it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to
any person, and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted
is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause
death, or

9



[2017] 1 LNS 781

(d)

Legal Network Series

if the person committing the act knows that it is
imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause
death, or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and
commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk
of causing death, or such injury as aforesaid.

[14] The learned DPP submitted that he is relying on the third limb i.e.
section 300(c) to prove that the 1 st accused murdered the deceased. I
pause to note that there is no requirement in the Criminal Procedure
Code to state the limb of section 300 in the murder charge. Therefore, as
long as the act of an accused person falls within any of the four limbs, it
would satisfy the offence of murder as defined in section 300.
[15] Having regard to the charge of murder in this case, the
prosecution is obliged to prove the following crucial elements:
(1)

That Bill anak Kayong had died as a result of the gunshot
wounds he received;

(2)

That the 1 st accused had inflicted the said gunshot wounds;

(3)

That the act of the 1 st accused in inflicting the gunshot
wounds on Bill anak Kayong came within the ambit of
any one of the four circumstances listed in section 300(a)
to (d) of the Penal Code.

Cause of death
[16] The widow of Bill anak Kayong identified the body at the
commencement of the autopsy in the presence of the police. The
Forensic Medicine Specialist (Dr Norliza binti Ibrahim, P.W. 11) told
the court that the deceased suffered several gunshot injuries but the
wounds on his neck and head were sufficient in the ordinary cause of
nature to cause death immediately. She opined that the deceased
10



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

would have died immediately and that the shot was fired from close to
intermediate range. Dr Norliza binti Ibrahim is a qualified Forensic
Medicine Specialist attached to a government hospital. She has
performed countless autopsies and her previous court testimonies have
been accepted by the court as stated in her curriculum vitae. No
challenge was mounted in respect of her qualification, expertise or her
findings in this case. In the premises, I find that the prosecution has
proved that the cause of death in this case is the gunshot wounds to
the neck and to the head of the deceased.
Whether the 1 st accused inflicted the gunshot wounds?
[17] This is the crucial element in this case. The prosecution rested
its case against the 1 st accused solely on circumstantial evidence. I
shall discuss it under the following sub-headings for sake of
convenience.

Opening Statement
[18] I am mindful that in the opening statement, the learned DPP had
stated that the prosecution will prove its case based on circumstantial
as well as direct evidence. Counsel for the 1st accused submitted that
an adverse inference should be drawn for the failure of the
prosecution to call any eye-witness despite the allusion in the opening
statement that they existed. He cited three cases, i.e. PP v. Yong Ngie
Ung [2016] 1 LNS 1152, PP v. Gobinath Alfonso A Kuppusamy [2009]
8 CLJ 255 and Mah Hong Ching & Anor v. PP [2007] 2 CLJ 292.
[19] I am of the view that the failure of the prosecution to call eyewitnesses despite the proclamation to that effect in the opening
statement is not fatal. I also see no reason to invoke adverse

11



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

inference. Firstly, it must be noted that adverse inference should only
be invoked if there is suppression of evidence. There is no reason to
hold that the prosecution had deliberately suppressed evidence by
preventing witnesses from testifying. In fact, two witnesses called by
the prosecution, i.e. P.W. 26 and P.W. 27 were impeached as they
denied knowledge of the case although they gave detailed information
in their section 112 statement.
[20] Secondly, in all the cases cited by counsel for the 1st accused,
the court did not rule that the failure to adhere to the opening
statement alone was fatal to the prosecution’s case. In PP v. Yong
Ngie Ung (supra), the trial court only made an observation that the
evidence at the trial departed from the opening statement. In PP v.
Gobinath Alfonso A Kuppusamy (supra), the court drew an adverse
inference only because the two crucial witnesses who were named in
the opening statement were not called as prosecution witnesses but
were instead offered to the defence. In Mah Hong Ching & Anor v. PP
(supra), the prosecution omitted to make an opening statement and the
court commented adversely on the said omission. In the instant case,
the prosecution did not name any eye-witness to the murder in the
opening statement. In fact if the opening statement is read carefully,
the prosecution did not even say that the “direct evidence” they
referred to was in respect of witnesses who actually saw the shooting.
The relevant portion of the opening statement is paragraph 6 and it
reads as follows:
6. In this trial, the prosecution will rely on medical evidence,
scientific evidence, circumstantial evidence as well as direct
evidence.
Thus, the instant case can be easily distinguished from PP v.
Gobinath Alfonso A Kuppusamy (supra). Therefore, I see no reason to

12



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

draw an adverse inference against the case for the prosecution for not
calling eye-witnesses.
Assessment of Circumstantial evidence
[21] Before proceeding further, I shall first direct myself on the law
in respect of the assessment of circumstantial evidence in a criminal
case. I shall first refer to the recent Federal Court case cited by the
learned DPP. In the case of Pathmanabhan Nallianen v. PP and other
appeals [2017] 4 CLJ 137, the Federal Court referred to several well
known authorities on circumstantial evidence. In Chan Chwen Kong v.
PP [1962] MLJ 307, Thomson CJ described the approach in assessing
circumstantial evidence as follows:
It must, however, be borne in mind that in cases like this where
the evidence is wholly circumstantial what has to be considered
is not only the strength of each individual strand of evidence but
also the combined strength of these strands when twisted
together to make a rope. The real question is: is that rope strong
enough to hang the prisoner?
[22] The Federal Court also quoted the old case of Belhaven &
Stenton Peerage (1875) 1 App Cas 278 at p 279 (cited in Idris v. PP
[1960] X MLJ 296 at p 297). In Belhaven & Stenton Peerage (supra),
Lord Cairns defined the nature of circumstantial evidence in the
following memorable passage:
“My Lords, in dealing with circumstantial evidence we have to
consider the weight which is to be given to the united force of
all the circumstances put together. You may have a ray of light
so feeble that by itself it will do little to elucidate a dark corner.
But on the other hand you may have a number of rays, each of
them insufficient, but all converging and brought to bear upon

13



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

the same point, and when united, producing a body of
illumination which will clear away the darkness which you are
endeavouring to dispel.”
[23] However, the onus on the prosecution when it relies on
circumstantial evidence is onerous. In the following passage in the
above mentioned case of Belhaven & Stenton Peerage (supra), Lord
Cairns cautioned as follows:
In other words circumstantial evidence consists of this: that
when you look at all the surrounding circumstances, you find
such a series of undesigned, unexpected coincidences that, as a
reasonable person, you find your judgment is compelled to one
conclusion. If the circumstantial evidence is such as to fall short
of that standard, if it does not satisfy that test, if it leaves gaps
then it is of no use at all. As I have stated this case depends
entirely upon circumstantial evidence.’
The same view has been echoed in many other cases that dealt with
circumstantial evidence. In the Singapore case of Sunny Ang v. PP
[1966] 2 MLJ 195, it was stated that the circumstantial evidence must
be of the standard that it not only irresistibly, inexorably and
unerringly points to the guilt of the accused but that other co-existing
circumstance must exclude any other explanation.
[24] In Ghambhir v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1982 SC 1157 which
was cited by our Court of Appeal in Sukhvinder Singh Naldip Singh v.
PP and another appeal [2014] 5 CLJ 574, Misra J in the Supreme
Court of India stated that three tests should be adopted in dealing with
circumstantial evidence which are as follows:
When a case rests upon the circumstantial evidence, such
evidence must satisfy three tests: (1) the circumstances from
which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn, must be

14



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

cogently and firmly established (2) those circumstances should
be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of
the accused; (3) the circumstances, taken cumulatively, should
form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the
conclusion that within all human probability the crime was
committed by the accused and none else. The circumstantial
evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and
incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the
guilt of the accused. The circumstantial evidence should not
only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be
inconsistent with his innocence.
With the above directions in mind, I shall now consider whether the
circumstantial evidence tendered in this case is sufficient to establish
a prima facie case against the 1 st accused on the charge of murder.

15



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Identification of murder weapon
[25] Lau Lee Shen (P.W. 25) led police to the discovery of a shotgun
which was hidden below the ceiling of his house. The pellets
recovered during autopsy of the deceased’s body were sent to the
police ballistics expert (ASP Nik Mohd Norhsyam Bin Nik Ismail,
P.W. 22) for comparison. He said that in his opinion, the pellets were
fired from the same shotgun. Counsel for the 1st accused challenged
his evidence.
[26] The ballistics expert (P.W. 22) outlined the method he employed
in his witness statement under section 402B of the Criminal Procedure
Code. He compared the pellets recovered from the body of the
deceased with the markings left behind by the firing pin on the
percussion cap of the three cartridges that were used during the
shotgun serviceability test. He used the computerised Integrated
Ballistics Identification System (IBIS) which records images of
markings.
[27] During cross-examination, his evidence was challenged because
he used his naked eyes to compare the images of the pellets with the
unique markings and the markings on the percussion cap of the said
three cartridges. The exchange between witness and counsel for the
1st accused is as follows:
Q:

Can you explain to us how does this IBIS device allowed
you to make this comparison?

A:

I recorded the 3 images of the casing in the said system,
then I made the comparison by images

Q:

These images you referred to did you put them side by side
each other while making comparison?

A:

Yes.
16



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Q:

In other words, you used your naked eyes to see the images
and make the comparison you referred to.

A:

Yes.

Q:

I PUT it to you that is incorrect procedure to make
comparison of markings of marks found on percussion
caps.

A:

I disagree.

Q:

I put it to you that the proper and accepted way to make
comparison of markings left behind by firing pins on
percussion caps is by recording images of the markings on
the percussion cap and overlapping the same in the
computer system to see if they are match exactly, do you
agree?

A:

I disagree.

[28] During re-examination and further cross-examination, he said
that side by side examination of the images which had been recorded
using the IBIS system is accurate. He said as follows:
Maksud saya dengan menggunakan mata kasar yang direct
memang menghasilkan jawapan yang tidak tepat. Akan tetapi
setelah menggunakan system IBIS, saya telah merekodkan image
ketiga-tiga kelongsong peluru dengan menggunakan sistem IBIS,
saya juga membuat perbandingan menggunakan mata kasar juga.
Akan tetapi ketiga-tiga imej kelongsong peluru tersebut,
gambarnya lebih jelas daripada kita tengok sebelum dimasukkan
ke dalam sistem IBIS.
[29] Counsel for the 1st accused submitted that the comparison of the
unique individual markings on the pellets and percussion cap is

17



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

inaccurate because P.W. 22 used his naked eyes. I find no merit in
this argument. P.W. 22 had disagreed with counsel for the 1st accused
and said that the images were produced using the IBIS computer
system and he had also compared the images with his naked eyes by
placing the images side by side. P.W. 22’s evidence that he has been
trained in ballistics analysis was not credibly challenged. He had
worked as a ballistics analyst for more than ten years at the Royal
Malaysia Police Forensics Laboratory in Cheras. He has worked on
about 500 cases and has attended many courses in ballistics since
2007. In the absence of expert rebuttal evidence, I see no reason not
to accept the disinterested evidence of a police expert witness.
[30] Counsel for the 1st accused also submitted that the evidence of
P.W. 22 is inadmissible for the reason that he did not identify two of
the three cartridges in court. He also said that there was
“misidentification” of the exhibits as it is stated in the notes of
proceedings “at page 334 that P134 to P149 were identified as
cartridges and the cartridges themselves were marked as P134A to
P149A.” I see no merit in the above arguments. The envelopes
containing all the sixteen cartridges tendered in court by the earlier
witness (P.W. 21) were marked with numbers. The cartridges inside
the envelopes were marked with the numbers and the letter “A”.
Therefore, even if the notes of proceedings do not reflect the fact that
P.W. 22 referred to the correct marking of the exhibit, i.e. with the
letter “A”, it does not mean that he did not identify it in court. In any
event, I find it all irrelevant. P.W. 22 affirmatively said that he
examined the three cartridges HK1, HK 2 and HK 3 and compared
them with the pellets recovered from the deceased. It is stated in his
report as well. Therefore, even if he omitted to identify two of the
three cartridges in open court, I cannot fathom how it can detract from
his expert findings after having examined the pellets and cartridges in
the laboratory.

18



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Serviceability of the murder weapon
[31] Counsel for the 1 st accused also challenged the finding of the
police ballistics expert (Inspector Mohd Riyadh, P.W. 21) who tested
the shotgun and wrote the serviceability report (P129). P.W. 21
testified that he examined the shotgun. He found that the essential
component parts were complete i.e. the shotgun had barrel, trigger,
hammer and firing pin. He tested the shotgun using the Bullet
Recovery System and found that the shotgun is serviceable. The
concluding paragraph of his report reads as follows:
2.3. Senjata api barang kes telah dijalankan ujian tembak
(serviceability) di bilik ujian tembak dengan mengunakan Bullet
Recovery System pada 11/08/2016 jam 1115 Hrs. Ujian tembak
telah dilakukan dengan menggunakan sebanyak (2) dua butir
peluru barang kes yang diambil secara rambang. Senjatapi
barang kes dapat melepaskan tembakan setelah diuji dengan
peluru-peluru barang kes tersebut.
[32] Learned counsel for the 1st accused put to P.W. 21 that he did
not test fire the shotgun with a live round, i.e. with pellets, wad and
gunpowder. P.W. 21 agreed but said that it will not affect the result of
his test. He said as follows:
If the pellets, the gunpower and the wad removed from the
cartridge, it will not affect the result, because it is sufficient to
test because the percussion cap will trigger gun powder and to
blast the wad and pellets through the barrel.
[33] P.W. 21 also said that if the barrel is blocked and projectiles
cannot pass through, it would have been considered non serviceable.
Counsel for the 1st accused referred to the definition of section 2 of
the Arms Act 1960 (revised 1978) which reads as follows:

19



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

“arm” means any lethal barrelled weapon of any description
from which any shot, bullet or other missile can be discharged,
or which can be adapted for the discharge of any such shot,
bullet or other missile, and any weapon of whatever description
designed or adapted or which can be adapted for the discharge
of any noxious liquid, gas or other thing, and includes an air
gun, air pistol, automatic gun, pistol and any component parts of
any such weapon, and any accessory to those weapons designed
or adapted to diminish the noise or flash caused by firing the
weapon;
He also cited section 2 of the Firearms (Increased Penalties Act) 1971
which reads as follows:
“firearm” means any lethal barrelled weapon of any description
from which any shot, bullet or other missile can be discharged
by means of an explosive charge, and includes a bomb or
grenade containing an explosive charge;
[34] Counsel for the 1st accused submitted that the test performed by
P.W. 21 does not fulfil the requirements of the above mentioned
definitions. Be that as it may, there is no statutory provision that
governs the manner of testing the serviceability of a firearm in the
above mentioned legislation. P.W. 21 is in my view an expert. He has
attended a course in ballistic armament and ballistic analysis. He had
conducted more than 100 ballistic analyses and has testified in court
more than ten times. He said that to his knowledge, his expert
evidence has yet to be rejected. Although live rounds were not used
by P.W. 21, he has examined all the component parts before test firing
the weapon. In the absence of expert rebuttal evidence, I see no
reason not to accept his evidence that the shotgun in question is
serviceable.

20



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

[35] Finally, counsel for the 1st accused submitted that PW. 21 and
P.W. 22 who are both ballistics experts did not swab the shotgun to
detect Gun Shot Residue (GSR) for signs that it had been fired. P.W.
21 and P.W. 22 agreed that swabs for GSR were not taken as they
were tasked to perform only ballistics analysis.
[36] However, it must be noted that SJN Jiffen ak Sotok (P.W. 16) of
the Forensics Unit has swabbed the barrel of the shotgun in question
for GSR. It was marked EB6(5)C and labelled “Swab pada hujung
laras senapang patah”. Science Officer Farah Ad-Din said that she
found GSR residue on EB6(5)C. Her evidence was seriously
challenged on various grounds. She said that upon analysis she found
lead (plumbum) and antimony in the swab. Counsel for the 1st
accused referred to literature on ballistics and challenged her finding
by saying that three elements must be found in GSR, namely lead,
antimony and barium. She disagreed. Again I see no reason not to
accept the finding of a qualified expert in the absence of expert
rebuttal evidence. Counsel for the 1st accused also put to her that the
elements of GSR are also found in brake lining pads used in bicycles,
cars and motorcycles. In the written submissions, counsel for the 1st
accused addressed this point again. I do not see the relevance of this
submission as SJN Jiffen swabbed the end of a shotgun barrel for GSR
tests and not a brake lining pad.
[37] Counsel for the 1st accused also questioned the analysis of P.W.
18 for the following reason. During the course of the crossexamination, counsel requested that P.W. 18 show her the
computerized images taken by the Scanning Electron Microscope
(SEM). They were marked as defence exhibits D4(A) and D4(B). In
the written submissions, counsel for the 1st accused raised the
argument that the words “Sample Analysis by Mohamad Firdhaus bin
Ramli” appears at the bottom of the printout of D4(A) and D4(B). In
the second written submission he cited the Court of Appeal case of PP
21



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

v. Abuchi Ben James [2015] 8 CLJ 1011. Holding (1) of the headnote
reads as follows:
(1) Based on the evidence of SP1, it was clear that two science
officers calibrated the machines used for the GCMS and GCFID
tests. They were given the samples by SP1 for analysis and they
operated the machines. Following that, they gave the printout
from the machines to SP1. Hence, there remained a doubt as to
whether the analysis was done by the science officers or by SP1.
If the analysis was done by the science officers, the evidence of
the chemist was vitiated and the ingredients of the charge had
not been proved. (paras 20 & 23)
[38] In my opinion, the facts of the above mentioned case are
distinguishable from the instant case. It was undisputed in the above
mentioned case that two science officers had calibrated the said
machines and a doubt arose as to who had done the analysis. In the
instant case, throughout the trial, P.W. 18 said that she conducted the
analysis and completed the report. This fact was never disputed
during the trial. Despite being given the computer printout images in
D4(A) and D4(B), counsel for the 1st accused never asked her
whether anyone else had done the SEM analysis. Had P.W. 18 been
asked by counsel for the 1st accused, she may have given an
explanation. It appears that for some reason, the name Mohamad
Firdhaus bin Ramli had been keyed in at the bottom of the printout.
Whether it was keyed during a preceding analysis or the instant
analysis in question, I should think that it is useless to hazard a guess
now. However, since counsel for the 1st accused never queried P.W.
18 who was on the witness stand, in my view, it is too late to submit
in this manner now.
[39] Since P.W. 18 had testified unchallenged that she analysed the
GSR swab in question, I shall accept her evidence. From her

22



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

curriculum vitae that was tendered in court, I am satisfied that she is
an expert in GSR analysis. She had attended courses in the subject
and has testified more than ten times in court and her evidence had
been accepted. The evidence of GSR on the shotgun means that it had
been fired.
[40] For all the above reasons, I find that the prosecution has proven
that the shotgun that was used to murder the deceased in this case is
the shotgun that was recovered from the house of Lau Lee Shen (P.W.
25). The prosecution has also proven that the weapon was functional.
I shall now address the evidence of Lau Lee Shen which is crucial to
the case of the prosecution.
Evidence of Lau Lee Shen
[41] The thickest strand of circumstantial evidence against the 1 st
accused was provided by Lau Lee Shen (P.W. 25). He is a furniture
shop owner. He led the police to the discovery of the murder weapon.
He strongly implicated the 1 st accused in the killing of the deceased in
this case although his evidence is circumstantial evidence only. The
deceased was murdered on 21 st June 2016. Lau Lee Shen could not
remember the exact date but he said that he was contacted by the 1 st
accused whom he knew as “Apek” in the middle of June of the same
year. The 1 st accused showed him a photograph of a man and said that
he “wanted” the man without explaining further. However, when
shown a photograph by the prosecution, he was unable to identify the
picture of the man in it. Lau Lee Shen said the 1 st accused asked him
to keep a shotgun. The 1 st accused then gave Lau Lee Shen a shotgun
which had been placed in a bag. Lau Lee Shen hid the shotgun and the
bag under the ceiling of his house. The 1 st accused also asked him to
go with him to test fire the shotgun. They pair went to a place in
Bakam to test fire the shotgun.

23



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

[42] Lau Lee Shen was told that the 1 st accused would collect the
shotgun the next morning at 5.00 a.m. The following morning, the 1 st
accused collected the shotgun from Lau Lee Shen around 6.00 a.m.
The 1 st accused returned the shotgun to Lau Lee Shen’s house about
three hours later at around 9 a.m. Lau Lee Shen identified the 1 st
accused in court as “Apek”. The only thing that Lau Lee Shen heard
after that event about the 1 st accused and the shotgun was that a
murder had occurred.
[43] In my opinion, the testimony of P.W. 25 constitutes strong
circumstantial evidence to implicate the 1 st accused in the murder of
the deceased. An irresistible inference can be drawn that the 1 st
accused had a direct role in the death of the deceased. My reasons are
as follows.
[44] The 1 st accused not only left the murder weapon with P.W. 25
about a week before the murder of the deceased but also went to test
fire the gun with him in Bakam. In fact, from the testimony of P.W.
25, it is apparent that the shotgun was tested with live rounds.
Furthermore, the 1 st accused made an appointment with P.W. 25 to
collect the gun the following morning at 5.00 a.m. The 1 st accused
collected the shotgun at 6.00 a.m. but returned it around 9.00 a.m. The
charge states that the murder occurred around 8.20 a.m. By 8.45 a.m.,
P.W. 8 noticed that the Toyota Hilux had stopped at the traffic lights
intersection in question. By 9.00 a.m., the widow of the deceased
heard that something had happened to her husband. In the premises, it
can be reasonably deduced that the deceased was shot at the traffic
lights well before 9.00 a.m. It has been conclusively proven that the
shotgun that the 1 st accused had left with P.W. 25 for safekeeping is
the murder weapon.
[45] Although P.W. 25 cannot remember the exact date, it is highly
probable that the 1 st accused returned to the former’s house to collect

24



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

the gun on the day of the murder of the deceased. The deceased was
murdered on 21 st June 2016. P.W. 25 told the court that the 1 st
accused contacted him in the middle of June of 2016. Although during
cross-examination, he was not sure about the date, he did say
affirmatively during examination in chief that it was in the middle of
June of 2016. That was about a week before the murder of the
deceased. P.W. 25 later heard that there was a murder. During crossexamination, P.W. 25 said that he did not make a note as to the date
he heard that there was a murder. The exchange between counsel and
P.W. 25 during cross-examination is as follows:
Q:

Did you make a note as to the date when you allegedly
heard that there was a murder?

A:

No.

Q:

In your testimony you merely heard that there was a
murder case, am I right?

A:

Yes.

In his written submission, counsel for the 1st accused said that the
murder referred to by P.W. 25 did not necessarily occur on the same
day that the 1 st accused collected the weapon but could have occurred
on any other day. He also said that P.W. 25 did not refer to a
“murder” in Miri and thus he could have referred to a murder
anywhere in the world.
[46] In my opinion, given the context of the testimony of P.W. 25, he
only referred to a murder that occurred in Miri and that it was related
to the shotgun that the 1 st accused had given to him for safekeeping. I
reproduce below his exact words during examination in chief by the
learned DPP:

25



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Q:

After Apek took the shotgun around 6am, what happened
then to Apek and the shotgun?

A:

After that I heard there is a murder case occurred.

Quite obviously, P.W. 25 was responding to the question as to what
happened to the 1 st accused and the shotgun. Assuming that the
“murder” he referred to had occurred somewhere else in the world or
on some other occasion, it would have been wholly unnecessary for
him to respond to the question of the learned DPP in the manner he
did. In the premises, the evidence of P.W. 25 very strongly suggests
that the 1 st accused was involved in the murder of the deceased.
[47] I shall now consider whether the 1 st accused could have dealt
with the shotgun for the purpose of game hunting. Counsel for the 1st
accused suggested to P.W. 25 that if the shotgun had been given to
him at all by the 1 st accused, it was for the purpose of hunting
animals. From the photographs, the place where the shotgun was
tested appears to be a secluded spot in Bakam. I should think that it is
unlikely that if one had intended to go game hunting, one would be
seen fit to test fire the weapon in a secluded spot beforehand. It could
have been done at hunt itself. Therefore, from the evidence of P.W.
25, it is probable that the 1 st accused had a more evil purpose in mind
than hunting animals.
[48] Counsel for the 1st accused put to P.W. 25 that he had lied in
court because he had been detained by the police under the Prevention
of Crime Act 1959 (POCA) and he had also been placed under
restricted residence. He also suggested that P.W. 25 had made a
bargain with the police to avoid being charged for a firearm
possession offence. P.W. 25 denied the suggestion. In my view, there
is no material to make such a suggestion. In any event, I found him to
be a credible witness. From the answers that P.W. 25 gave during
examination in chief and cross-examination, it is obvious that he was
26



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

not eager to overstate the case of the prosecution in any way by
giving exact dates and embellishing details. It is apparent that he gave
answers only insofar as his memory retained them. If he had been
coached as a witness upon the striking of an unholy bargain with the
police, it is likely that he would have given exact dates and more
incriminating particulars. Although, demeanour is no touchstone of
truth, I am satisfied that P.W. 25 is a credible witness. Therefore, I
see no reason to hold that he was an untruthful witness as submitted
by counsel for the 1st accused merely because he had been detained
under POCA or subjected to restricted residence. I will now consider
other strands of circumstantial evidence that point to the role of the
1 st accused in the murder of the deceased.
Face mask
[49] When the shotgun was recovered from P.W. 25, the police found
a face mask inside the shotgun bag. The face mask was sent for DNA
profile analysis. Zaliha Suadi (P.W. 12), the DNA expert confirmed in
court that she developed a DNA profile from material found on the
face mask that matched the DNA profile developed from the blood
specimen of the 1 st accused. The face mask was tendered into
evidence without any objection by the defence.
[50] However, the identity of the face mask was questioned by
counsel for the 1st accused. The chemist (P.W. 17, Mohd Riduan)
received it from the investigating officer and forwarded it to the DNA
expert for analysis. P.W. 17 said that the said face mask is an
“ALPINE” brand face mask. During the trial, he agreed that the
marking “ALPINE” does not appear on the face mask. However, P.W.
17 explained that he mistook the logo on the face mask to be of the
“ALPINE” brand. He said as follows:

27



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Q:

You were asked about Alpine or logo by the defence
counsel and you said ‘no’ there was no Alpine logo, you
agreed to it and about the brand name Alpine and you also
said ‘yes’ there is no brand name Alpine that you could see
from the exhibit but you seemed to want to explain
something to this Court?

A:

The Alpine actually I was referring to this face mask and
now I am aware that this logo is an Alpinestar logo.

The investigating officer, P.W.
was recovered from the shotgun
in the suggestion of the defence
were recovered or there was
“misidentification” of exhibits.

28 testified that only one face mask
bag. In the premises, there is no merit
that it is possible that two face masks
mix up of exhibits or there was

[51] Counsel put to the DNA expert witness (P.W. 12) whether she
knew that the 1 st accused was forced to wear the face mask while in
police custody. However, this suggestion was never put to the police
witnesses including the investigating officer. Thus, there is no reason
to speculate that the DNA material of the 1 st accused got on to the
face mask after his arrest.
[52] The fact that the 1 st accused’s profile was developed from
material found on the face mask which was recovered from the
shotgun bag corroborates the evidence of P.W. 25. The shotgun was
given to P.W. 25 together with the bag. P.W. 25 took it on the day in
question together with the bag in which the face mask was found.
Therefore, an inference can be drawn to link the 1 st accused to the
smoking gun which is the same gun that P.W. 25 said was given to
him for safekeeping.

28



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Evidence of P.W. 20 – Jambali anak Jali
[53] P.W. 20 (Jambali anak Jali) is the former headman of a
longhouse in Sungai Bekelit Bekenu. He was a friend of the deceased.
He said the deceased always supported the longhouse residents in the
land dispute with a plantation company known as Tung Huat Pelita
Niah Plantation. P.W. 20 said that the deceased told him that the
“Tung Huat people” want to give him “bribe money” to persuade the
longhouse residents to surrender their land. However, he said the
“company” threatened the deceased as he had refused the offer. P.W.
20 said that on one occasion the 1 st accused and 3 rd accused came to
their land to threaten them. He said as follows:
Q:

With regard to you said ‘our land problem’, can you please
elaborate more on that?

A:

Our land problem with a company called Tung Huat Pelita
Niah Plantation. I myself did not enemy with anybody
because these people are the ones who disturbed Bill Kayong
and myself. Every time Bill Kayong support what am I
doing, the people from the Company always threaten us until
Chin and Fitri enter our compound, because this people do
not want to see the late Bill to support the long house folks.

[54] It has been suggested by counsel that the words “until Chin and
Fitri enter our compound” in the sentence “the people from the
Company always threaten us until Chin and Fitri enter our
compound”, means that threats ceased after the 1 st and 3 rd accused
entered their land. For good measure, the definition of “until” in the
Oxford Learner’s Dictionary (9 th Edition) was also cited. With
respect, this is not the way to understand or analyse the meaning of
the words that were translated into English from another language by
the court interpreter. P.W. 20 testified in Iban. In the context of his

29



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

evidence, what he meant was that the threats received by the
longhouse residents culminated in 1 st and 3 rd accused entering their
compound. Otherwise, the entire passage I cited above would not
make any sense.
[55] However, P.W. 20 did not say anything else about the details of
the threats that the deceased had received.
Q:

About this threat received, can you elaborate more on that?

A:

The Late Bill Kayong did not tell me in details about the
threat that he received. He only told me that he received
threat from this people.

Nonetheless, the evidence of P.W. 20 links the 1 st accused to the land
dispute that the longhouse residents in Bekelit and the Tung Huat
Plantation company were embroiled in. There is no evidence about the
role of the 1 st accused in the Tung Huat Plantation company but P.W.
20 said that the 1 st accused actually came to their land to threaten
them. P.W. 20 said that the deceased was also involved in the same
dispute as he was helping the longhouse residents. This strand of
circumstantial evidence that links the 1 st accused to the murder of the
deceased is a weak strand but it provides motive and strengthens other
strands of circumstantial evidence to link him to the death of the
deceased.
Other issues
[56] For sake of completeness, I shall also address some other issues
that were raised by the prosecution and the defence in the written
submissions and during oral arguments. I shall discuss these issues
under the following sub-headings.

30



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Identity of Toyota Hilux
[57] The first information report was taken down by KPL Hairi bin
Bain (P.W. 1). He said the informer (P.W. 8) told him that the
registration number of the Toyota Hilux was QMN 6462. In his police
report, P.W. 1 stated it as QMU 6462. He said the registration number
was provided by P.W. 8. The police patrol car with KPL Mohd
Firdaus (P.W. 6) and KPL Sandy arrived at 9.06 a.m. They
immediately cordoned off the area around a Toyota Hilux that had
stopped at the traffic lights intersection in question. The police
photographs show that the number of the Toyota Hilux vehicle was
QMU 6462. P.W. 8 was shown a set of 52 photographs marked as
P19(1-52) which showed a Toyota Hilux with a shattered window on
the driver’s side. He identified it as the vehicle that had stopped at the
traffic lights. P.W. 7, the medical assistant who arrived at the scene
soon after said as follows:
We arrived at the place of incident at 9.36 a.m and I noticed that
there were police officers and many public around. I also
noticed there was a vehicle on the road which is Toyota Hilux
bearing registration no. QMU 6462.
[58] P.W. 28, the investigating officer of the case said that when he
arrived at the scene, he noticed that a Toyota Hilux bearing
registration number QMU 6462 had been cordoned off with a yellow
police tape. Thus, none of the witness who were at the scene had said
that there was a second Toyota Hilux bearing registration number
QMN 6462. It is patently clear that P.W. 1 made a mistake when he
said QMN instead of QMU when referring to the registration number.
[59] However, counsel for the 1st accused submitted there could have
been a second Toyota Hilux at the scene. His reason for this argument
is as follows. The investigating officer (P.W. 28) had said as follows:

31



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Dengan bersama jurufoto L/KPL Mohamad Noorazam bin
Bahari dan ASP Zainan Azlili bin Abdul Latiff, saya telah
mengambil gambar sekeliling kereta Toyota Hilux.
During cross-examination, counsel for the 1st accused asked the
investigating officer to confirm whether the above statement is true
and the latter answered in the affirmative. Based on the above answer,
counsel for the 1st accused has latched on to the mistake of P.W. 1
and submitted that the photographs taken by the investigating officer
were not tendered into evidence. He also argued that if the said
photographs were tendered into evidence, it “would show the
existence of a second Hilux”. My view on this argument is this. If the
statement of the investigating officer which is in Malay is read in its
proper context, one would realise that it does not say that the
investigating officer took a different set of photographs at the scene.
The investigating officer had said as follows:
“…..dengan bersama jurufoto…. saya telah mengambil gambar”.
He did not say that both he and the photographer took photographs
separately. He did not say that he personally (saya sendiri) took some
photographs. It must be borne in mind that the investigating officer is
a senior officer and that he is assisted by various junior officers in his
work. In any event, counsel for the 1st accused who conducted a very
lengthy cross-examination of the investigating officer never asked
him about the existence of the photographs that the latter allegedly
took at the scene of crime. Therefore, with respect, the submission of
learned counsel for the 1st accused is speculative and even fanciful.
Confession of P.W. 27
[60] During the trial, evidence was tendered in respect of the police
interrogation of a suspect, one Sim Chien Hui (P.W. 27). According to
DSP Soliment Nyian (P.W.24), the suspect said as follows:

32



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

“Apek telah letak satu senapang panjang dalam bonet belakang
kereta saya jenis proton wira warna putih nombor?? 8686
sebelum hantar sama Ah Seng. Kereta itu saya letak luar Balai
Polis Miri. Kunci kereta ada di Balai Polis Miri. Saya boleh
tunjuk tempat itu sama tuan”.
P.W. 24 took down the confession of P.W. 27 by hand. It is signed by
both P.W. 24 and P.W. 27. He also lodged a police report and
reproduced the same statement in it (P158). P.W. 27 subsequently led
the police to a Proton Wira Car bearing registration number
MA8686Q which was parked beside the Miri Central Police Station.
The police forensics team swabbed the car for Gun Shot Residue
(GSR). Science Officer, Farah Ad-Din (P.W. 18) confirmed finding
GSR on samples taken from the car. The learned DPP submitted that it
is another piece of circumstantial evidence. I admitted the police
report. I was of the view that it is admissible as it relates to what P.W.
24 heard from P.W. 27. However, P.W. 27 was impeached by the
prosecution as he repudiated his section 112 statement. In the
premises, the police report containing the confession of P.W. 27
cannot be used to prove the truth of the contents as it would amount to
hearsay. Thus, it has no evidentiary value.
[61] During the trial, the learned DPP submitted that the police
report was made pursuant to section 27 of the Evidence Act 1950 as
evidence of discovery. In the written submission, the learned DPP did
not address this point again. Nonetheless, I am of the opinion, that the
confession of P.W. 27 which is produced in the police report is not
admissible under section 27 of the Evidence Act 1950. It is trite law
that section 27 must be strictly construed as it is an exception to the
normal rules of admitting a confession. As stated in Chandrasekaran
& Ors v. PP [1971] 1 MLJ 153, section 27 is a concession to the
prosecution. In above mentioned case, Raja Azlan Shah J (as HRJ
then was) explained the underlying principle as follows:
33



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

The reason is that, since the discovery itself provides the acid
test, the truth of the statement that led to the discovery is
thereby guaranteed.
Section 27 reads as follows:
27. How much of information received from accused may be
proved
(1) When any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of
information received from a person accused of any offence in
the custody of a police officer, so much of that information,
whether the information amounts to a confession or not, as
relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered may be proved.
[62] The first condition that must be noted is that the information
must come from “a person accused of any offence”. In the case of
Chong Soon Koy v. PP [1977] 2 MLJ 78, the accused was a mere
suspect in the custody of the police at the time he gave the
information in question which led to the discovery of firearms. He had
yet to be accused of any crime but he was charged later. The former
Federal Court held that “a person accused of any offence” can mean
“a person accused at the time or subsequently of any offence.”
However, P.W. 27 in the instant case has not been charged with any
offence relating to this case. Therefore the statement cannot be
admitted under section 27 of the Evidence Act 1950.
[63] Even if it were otherwise, as stated in section 27, only so much
of the information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered
may be proved. This condition was elucidated in the well known
Supreme Court case of Wai Chan Leong v. PP [1989] 3 MLJ 356.
Gunn Chit Tuan SCJ re-stated the requirement pithily as follows:

34



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

In other words the fact must be the consequence and the
information the cause of its discovery. Moreover the information
must relate distinctly to the fact discovered.
The learned Judge also cited an illustration given in the old Privy
Council case of Pulukuri Kotayya v. King Emperor 74 IA 65 about
how much of the information which led to discovery of a fact can be
admitted:
Information supplied by a person in custody that “I will produce
a knife concealed in the roof of my house” does not lead to the
discovery of a knife; knives were discovered many years ago. It
leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the
house of the informant to his knowledge, and if the knife is
proved to have been used in the commission of the offence, the
fact discovered is very relevant. But if to the statement the
words be added ‘with which I stabbed A.’ these words are
inadmissible since they do not relate to the discovery of the
knife in the house of the informant.”
[64] In the instant case, as a result of the information given by P.W.
27, the police discovered the Proton Wira car. Therefore, that fact the
Proton Wira car was parked at the road near the police station to the
knowledge of P.W. 27 is admissible. The fact that “Apek” had put a
shotgun in the car is not admissible as the police did not find any
shotgun in the car. In any event, as I said earlier, P.W. 27 is not an
accused person. It can only apply to an accused person who has made
a confession which resulted in the discovery of a fact.
[65] There is also a further reason why the statement of P.W. 27 is
not admissible under section 27. In the statement of P.W. 27 that was
taken down by P.W. 24 and reproduced in the police report (P158),
P.W. 27 had said as follows:

35



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Kunci kereta ada di Balai Polis Miri.
The police witnesses did not explain the significance of this
statement. However, the car was parked just outside the Miri Central
Police Station and from the plain meaning of the words uttered by
P.W. 27, the car was for some reason already in the custody of the
police as the keys were in the police station. Therefore, it cannot be
said to have been discovered as a consequence of the information
given by P.W. 27.
As there is no other evidence to link the car to the accused, the
finding of GSR in the car cannot be considered to constitute another
strand of circumstantial evidence.
Chain of evidence
[66] Counsel for the 1st accused submitted that there was a break in
the chain of evidence relating to the exhibits analysed by the Chemist
(P.W. 12) because her assistant (Hamidon) had access to the strong
room where the exhibits were kept. Furthermore, the assistant also
handled the exhibits. Hamidon was not called as a witness. Counsel
for the 1st accused submitted that there could have been tampering or
contamination of the exhibit and he urged the court to draw an
adverse inference. I see no merit in this submission. It is purely
speculative. The chemist cannot be expected to work without
assistants. Counsel for the 1st accused did not establish through crossexamination that there was contamination or tampering with the
exhibits. In fact, P.W.12 strongly denied the suggestion of counsel.
For the same reason, counsel for the 1st accused suggested that there
was tampering or contamination in respect of the exhibits handled by
P.W. 17 who is the chemist who collected all the samples. The reason
is that another chemist by the name of Mohd Fazli also had access to

36



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

the strong room. I see no merit in this submission for the same
reasons given earlier.
[67] Counsel for the 1st accused suggested that there was a mix-up of
exhibits in relation to the analysis of the face mask because no
handing over receipts between P.W. 12 and P.W. 17 were tendered in
evidence. Both witnesses disagreed with the suggestion that there was
no proper handing over. I see no merit in this suggestion merely
because the receipts were not tendered.
Case to answer by 1 st accused
[68] In conclusion, the prosecution has adduced strong circumstantial
evidence to link the 1 st accused to the murder of the deceased. To
recapitulate, the 1 st accused had handled the murder weapon at about
the same time when the deceased was murdered. He had tested the
weapon the day before the murder in a secluded spot. He came the
following morning to pick up the weapon. After the weapon was
returned, P.W. 25 heard there was a murder. DNA evidence linked the
1 st accused to the face mask found inside the shot gun bag. The former
longhouse chief (P.W. 20) said the 1 st accused had threatened them
and did not like the fact the deceased assisted longhouse residents to
defend their land. The shotgun is a powerful weapon that is lethal if
fired at short range. The forensic medical specialist said that death
was immediate. Therefore, the shotgun must have been fired with the
intention of causing death or knowledge that it will cause death under
limb (c) of section 300 of the Penal Code. Although there is no
evidence of the manner the shot was fired because of absence of eyewitnesses, all the above pieces of evidence if combined together,
leads to the irresistible inference that it was the 1 st accused who had
shot the deceased on that fateful morning. I therefore reject the
contention of counsel for the 1st accused that the evidence only casts

37



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

mere suspicion against the 1 st accused. I hereby call upon the 1 st
accused to enter his defence upon the said charge of murdering the
deceased.
Case against abettors
[69] The 2 nd accused, 3 rd accused and 4 th accused have been charged
with abetting the murder of deceased by the 1 st accused. The
definition of abetment is provided in section 107 of the Penal Code.
The provision (shorn of Explanations and Illustrations) reads as
follows:
A person abets the doing of a thing who-(a) instigates any person to do that thing;
(aa) commands any person to do that thing;
(b) engages with one or more other person or persons in
any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or
illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that
conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or
(c) intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the
doing of that thing.
[70] It behoves the prosecution to tender evidence to satisfy any one
of the limbs of the above mentioned definition. The prosecution
should tender evidence to prove that the abettors had either instigated
the 1 st accused or had commanded him or had conspired with him or
aided him in the murder of the deceased. However, during the trial
sufficiently cogent circumstantial evidence was not given to support
the abetments charges against all the said three accused persons. I

38



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

shall address the evidence that was tendered against each of the three
accused persons separately.
Evidence against 2 nd accused – Lie Chang Loon
[71] The 2 nd accused was only mentioned by the prosecution
witnesses in relation to his arrest by the police, his identification by
the investigating officer in court and the testing of his blood sample
for the purpose of developing a DNA profile. It goes without saying
that this type of evidence cannot by any stretch of the imagination
connect him to the murder of the deceased in the instant case. No
witnesses came forward to say that the 2 nd accused had even in some
remote manner instigated, commanded, conspired or aided the 1 st
accused to murder the deceased. There is no forensic evidence or any
other circumstantial evidence that can connect him to the murder of
the deceased either. In the premises, the case of the prosecution
against the 2 nd accused is a complete non-starter.
Evidence against 3 rd accused – Chin Wui Chung
[72] The 3 rd accused was also mentioned by prosecution witnesses
during the trial for the same reasons, i.e. he was arrested, a blood
specimen was taken from him and he was identified in court. Apart
from that, the only mention of the 3 rd accused was made by P.W. 20
(Jambali anak Jali). I had referred to his evidence earlier when
dealing with the circumstantial evidence against the 1 st accused. P.W.
20 said that the 1 st accused and 3 rd accused had entered their land to
threaten the longhouse residents. No other evidence linking the 3 rd
accused to the crime of abetting the murder of the deceased was
adduced.

39



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

[73] I had called for the defence of the 1 st accused based on various
pieces of circumstantial evidence including forensic evidence. The 1 st
accused is charged with the principal offence of murder. The 3 rd
accused is charged with abetting him. In the premises, the prosecution
must adduce evidence that the 3 rd accused had either instigated or
commanded or conspired with or aided the 1 st accused to murder the
deceased. The single piece of evidence to incriminate the 3 rd accused
was that he was together with the 1 st accused when the longhouse
residents were threatened. This evidence is plainly insufficient to
satisfy the ingredients of the offence of abetment in the murder of the
deceased. It can only cast suspicion which cannot satisfy the test of a
prima facie case. Moreover, the evidence in question is circumstantial
evidence and the principle is that a case predicated on circumstantial
evidence alone must irresistibly and unerringly point to the guilt of
the accused person and must also exclude any other explanation.
Evidence against 4 th accused – Lee Chee Kiang
[74] The 4 th accused was mentioned by three witnesses in this trial,
P.W. 19, P.W. 20 and the investigating officer, P.W. 28. However,
none of the witnesses who mentioned him gave an iota of evidence to
connect him to the crime in question. The prosecution did not tender
any forensic evidence either to support the charge of abetment. I shall
consider their evidence below.
[75] P.W. 19 is a private medical practitioner. He is also the Member
of Parliament for Miri. He told the court that the victim is his special
assistant. P.W. 19 said the victim had been involved in assisting
villagers in a land dispute with the Tung Huat Plantation company in
Bekelit. P.W. 19 said both he and the victim had been threatened. He
said a man who called himself “Ah Lek” said that he is a friend of
Datuk Stephen Lee and had threatened to kill him. The threat was

40



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

made over the phone. P.W. 19 lodged a police report. P.W. 19 said a
few weeks before that incident, the 4 th accused met him in a coffee
shop and asked for his help as the longhouse people had been seen
coming to his clinic. The 4 th accused told P.W. 19 that he had bought
the land in dispute for RM10 million. P.W. 19 said he will help but
did not know what he can do. After that, the said “Ah Lek” threatened
P.W.19 over the phone. Then 4 th accused came to see him to apologize
for Ah Lek’s behavior. The 4 th accused even offered to bring the said
“Ah Lek” to the police station. That was the sum of P.W. 19’s
evidence.
[76] P.W. 20, the former headman from Sungai Bekelit Bekenu also
mentioned the 4 th accused. He did not say anything incriminating
against the 4 th accused as he only said that he can identify him.
During cross-examination, he admitted that he can identify the 4 th
accused only because he saw his pictures in the newspapers.
[77] The final mention of the 4 th accused was by the investigating
officer, P.W. 28. The terse statement of P.W. 28 was that he arrested
the 4 th accused at the KLIA on 13 th December 2016 at 8 p.m. He
identified the 4 th accused in court. P.W. 28 did not say anything else
about the 4 th accused in his evidence in chief. He did not even relate
the circumstances that led to the arrest of the 4 th accused at the KLIA.
As I said at the outset, no reason was given why the 4 th accused was
arrested much later than the other accused persons.
[78] Thus the evidence of the investigating officer (P.W. 28) and
P.W. 20 in respect of the 4 th accused are not in the least
incriminatory. Their evidence does not even cast suspicion on him in
respect of the offence of abetting the murder of the deceased.
[79] P.W. 19 had given evidence that the deceased had been
threatened. However, he never said that the 4 th accused had threatened
the deceased. He only said the deceased was threatened in relation to
41



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

his work of defending the interests of the longhouse residents in a
land dispute with the Tung Huat Plantation Company. The prosecution
did not tender any evidence in respect of the ownership of this
company. In any event, the charge of abetment is directed at an
individual, namely the 4 th accused. Even if the evidence of P.W. 19 is
viewed as a strand of circumstantial evidence, it is only one strand of
evidence which on its own cannot satisfy the test of a prima facie
case. The question to ask would be whether if the defence of the 4 th
accused is called based on the evidence of P.W. 19 alone, would the
court be prepared to convict him if he remains silent? The evidence of
P.W. 19, at its highest, can only cast suspicion of the 4 th accused. To
my mind, without other circumstantial evidence to connect the 4 th
accused to 1 st accused or to the other accused persons in respect of the
murder of the deceased, the evidence of P.W. 19 is plainly insufficient
to establish a prima case against the 4 th accused.
[80] In conclusion, the prosecution has failed to establish a prima
facie case against the alleged abettors, i.e. the 2 nd accused, the 3 rd
accused and the 4 th accused. In the premises, I shall discharge and
acquit the 2 nd accused, the 3 rd accused and the 4 th accused without
calling for their defence.
[81] As for the 1 st accused, I had found that the prosecution has
established a prima facie case. I therefore call upon him to enter his
defence on the charge of murder of Bill anak Kayong.
(RAVINTHRAN PARAMAGURU)
Judge
High Court
Kota Kinabalu, Sabah

42



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Date of Grounds of Judgment: 6 JUNE 2017
Date of Delivery of Decision: 6 JUNE 2017
Date of Hearing:

18 JANUARY 2017
7 – 10 MARCH 2017
13-15 MARCH 2017
28 – 31 MARCH 2017
25 MAY 2017

COUNSEL:
For the prosecution - DPP Mohd Fuad Abdul Aziz, Attorney General
Chambers, Putrajaya
For the 1 st accused - Ranbir S Sangha; M/s Ranbir S Sangha & Co
Advocates and Solicitors
Miri, Sarawak
For the 2 nd accused - Arthur Lee; M/s Arthur CA Lee &Partners
Advocates and Solicitors
Miri, Sarawak
For the 3 rd accused - David Kuok; M/s Wong Orlando Chua & Kuok
Advocates
Advocates & Solicitors
Sibu, Sarawak
For the 4 th accused - Orlando Chua; M/s Wong, Orlando Chua &
Kuok Advocates
Advocates and Solicitors
Sibu, Sarawak
43



[2017] 1 LNS 781

Legal Network Series

Notice: This copy of the Court’s Reasons for Judgment is subject to
editorial revision.

44

