[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

15

KARPAL SINGH RAM SINGH v. PP & ANOTHER APPEAL
COURT OF APPEAL, PUTRAJAYA
MOHTARUDIN BAKI JCA
TENGKU MAIMUN TUAN MAT JCA
KAMARDIN HASHIM JCA
[CRIMINAL APPEALS NO: W-05(S)-66-03-2014
& W-05-78-03-2014]
31 MAY 2016
CRIMINAL LAW: Sedition Act 1948 – Section 4(1)(b) – Appellant accused of
making seditious comments at a press conference – Whether appellant questioned
prerogative powers of Sultan of Perak – Whether Sedition Act unconstitutional and
contrary to art. 10(2) of the Federal Constitution – Whether charge against
appellant defective – Whether statements made had seditious tendency within ambit
of s. 3(1)(a), (d) and (f) of Sedition Act 1948 – Whether appellant’s speech intended
to bring hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against Ruler of State or
Government – Whether appellant succeeded in establishing defence under s. 3(2)(a)
of the Sedition Act 1948 – Whether appellant denied a fair trial – Whether
conviction safe
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Appeal – Appeal against conviction and sentence –
Appellant accused of making seditious comments at a press conference – Sedition
Act 1948, s. 4(1)(b) – Whether appellant questioned prerogative powers of Sultan of
Perak – Whether Sedition Act unconstitutional and contrary to art. 10(2) of the
Federal Constitution – Whether charge against appellant defective – Whether
appellant had mens rea in making statements which had seditious tendency within
ambit of s. 3(1)(a), (d) and (f) of Sedition Act 1948 – Whether appellant’s speech
intended to bring hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against Ruler of State
or Government – Whether appellant succeeded in establishing defence under
s. 3(2)(a) of the Sedition Act 1948 – Whether appellant denied a fair trial – Whether
conviction safe
The appellant was charged under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948
(‘Sedition Act’). The charge was based on certain seditious comments made
by the appellant at a press conference held by him due to the removal of the
then Perak Menteri Besar by His Royal Highness (‘HRH’) Sultan of Perak.
At the close of the prosecution’s case, the appellant was acquitted by the High
Court. Aggrieved by the said decision, the prosecution appealed. The appeal
by the prosecution was allowed and the appellant was ordered to enter upon
his defence at the High Court before the same trial judge. The appellant had
two issues in his defence (i) that the appellant was not questioning the
prerogative power of HRH the Sultan in dissolving the State Assembly, but
just the manner the prerogative was exercised and (ii) that the charge against
the appellant under the Sedition Act 1948 was unconstitutional and there was
selective prosecution by the Attorney General. On the issue of selective
prosecution, quoting art. 145(3) of the Federal Constitution, the High Court



16

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

found no reason and power to rule that the appellant ought not to have been
charged on the ground that there had been selective and mala fide prosecution
against the appellant. The High Court Judge further decided that the
appellant had failed to cast a reasonable doubt on the prosecution’s case and
held that the words the appellant had uttered in his statement had seditious
tendency to bring into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against a
Ruler and a government as provided under s. 3(1)(a) of the Act, had tendency
to raise discontent or disaffection amongst the subjects of the Yang di-Pertuan
Agong or of the Ruler of any State or amongst the inhabitants of Malaysia
or of any State as provided under s. 3(1)(d) and finally as provided under
s. 3(1)(f), had seditious tendency to question any matter, right, status,
position, privilege, sovereignty or prerogative established or protected by
art. 181(1) of the Federal Constitution. The appellant was convicted and
fined RM4,000 in default of four months’ imprisonment. Hence, this appeal.
The issues that arose were (i) whether the Sedition Act was unconstitutional
as it was contrary to art. 10(2) of the Federal Constitution and it prohibits
freedom of expression and speech on matters provided in s. 4 read with
s. 3 of the Sedition Act; (ii) whether the charge against the appellant was
defective and (iii) whether the High Court Judge failed to make a finding
whether or not the appellant had succeeded in establishing his defence under
s. 3(2)(a) of the Sedition Act, thus he was denied a fair trial as his defence
was not evaluated properly.

A

B

C

D

E

Held (dismissing appeal; affirming conviction)
Per Mohtarudin Baki JCA:
(1) The constitutional issues raised had been ventilated and settled by the
Federal Court in various decided cases in an extensive manner. There
was no reason to go against the principles established in the case of
PP v. Azmi Sharom with regards of modification of the Sedition Act in
accordance with the Federal Constitution and on the proportionality test
as to whether s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act imposes a total prohibition or
proportionate restriction. The appellant’s submission on these grounds
had no compelling merits. Further, for the issue of defective charge, in
a prosecution under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act, the Public Prosecutor
was not bound to specify in the charge on which of the six tendencies
set out in s. 3(1) he relied on and it was open to him during the course
of the trial to pick and choose. Thus, this issue was bereft of any merit.
(paras 14 & 15)
(2) This was a serious offence involving sovereignty of a Ruler and his
prerogative powers. The appellant had crossed his limits when he
uttered phrases such as (i) “firm reminder to him”; (ii) “he had no right
to dismiss the government rather the State Government of MB Nizar
Jamaludin”; (iii) “I’ve stated very clearly that we will sue the Sultan
together with the new State Government as defendants if they
persist” and (iv) “He is not immune from being taken to the court”.

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

17

The appellant clearly had mens rea in making such statements which had
seditious tendency within the ambit of s. 3(1)(a),(d) and also (f) of the
Act. (paras 17 & 18)
(3) In making any statement especially in a press conference against the
Ruler and his prerogative powers, one has a responsibility to be
absolutely sure that it has no serious tendency as laid out by s. 3(1) of
the Act. The appellant’s continuous and repeated averments that the
Ruler has no power and that he was not immune from being taken to
court only showed that he had crossed the line between uttering words
that were legally permitted and the ones that had seditious tendency.
It was unreasonable for the appellant who was from a legal background,
especially with vast knowledge in constitutional law, to have come up
with such statements. (para 20)
(4) The statements were very disrespectful to be made against any Ruler of
State and sufficed to constitute an offence under s. 4(1) of the Act. The
statements made by the appellant did not fall under s. 3(2)(a) as they
were farfetched from only showing that the Ruler had been misled or
mistaken in dissolving the State Assembly and to appoint the new
Menteri Besar. Thus, the appellant’s argument that the High Court Judge
had failed to make a finding whether the appellant had made out a
defence under s. 3(2) of the Act did not entitle him to be exonerated from
the offence. The non-direction did not tantamount to a serious
misdirection. Therefore, the conviction against the appellant was safe.
(para 22)
Per Kamardin Hashim JCA (concurring):

F

G

H

I

(1) The restrictions imposed by s. 4(1) of the Sedition Act 1948 did not
infringe the reasonable test and the proportionality test. Thus, the
restrictions imposed in s. 4(1) of the Act fell squarely within the ambit
or parameter of art. 10(2)(a) of the Federal Constitution. The restrictions
imposed did not run counter to art. 10(2)(a). The Act was therefore
constitutionally enacted by Parliament and remain a valid and
enforceable law. (para 90)
(2) The court of law is duty bound to interpret the law as it is and to give
effect to its provisions. In cases where there are nugatory provisions, it
is the duty of the legislator to make some amendments. Section 3(2) of
the Act is valid and in the spirit and purpose of in enacting the Act by
Parliament, ie to curb any act, word or publication having a seditious
tendency as defined in s. 3(1) paras (a) to (f) of the Act. (para 91)
(3) Upon reading the impugned speech as a whole, it was intended to bring
into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against HRH the Sultan
of Perak, to raise discontent or disaffection amongst the subjects of
His Majesty besides to question any matter, right, status, position,



18

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

privilege, sovereignty or prerogative established or protected by the
provisions of Part III of the Federal Constitution of the Ruler of Perak.
Intention was irrelevant. The truth or falsity of the words mattered was
immaterial nor was the after effect of it. There was thus no substantial
miscarriage of justice occurring in this case. The conviction was safe.
(paras 99 & 100)

A

B

Per Tengku Maimun Tuan Mat JCA (dissenting):
(1) The issue of modification of the Sedition Act as an existing law had been
decided by the Federal Court. It was not for this court to “revisit” the
issue on the premise that the Federal Court had failed to consider the
issue in the context of Tan Eng Hong. The issue on proportionality or
whether s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act imposes a total prohibition or
proportionate restriction had similarly been decided in PP v. Azmi
Sharom, where it was clearly stated that as s. 3(2) provides for
exceptions, s. 4(1) of the Sedition Act was not a total prohibition.
Further, guided by the Federal Court case of Fan Yew Teng v. PP the
issue of defective charge was devoid of merit. (paras 60, 61, 64 & 65)
(2) The appellant had given evidence under oath and he was crossexamined. He stated that the real reason why he held the Press
Conference was for public interest. It was meant to explain to the public
the political crisis in the State of Perak and that he was giving his legal
opinion. The appellant further stated that the Sultan of Perak could not
be questioned on HRH’s prerogative and that he did not question the
power or prerogative of the Sultan of Perak but that he was questioning
the manner HRH the Sultan of Perak applied the prerogative and
resolved the crisis, which in the appellant’s view was wrong. And
whether his view was right or wrong, that was his opinion. (para 72)
(3) Surely the defence given on oath deserved to be analysed and evaluated
by the High Court. However, there was simply no evaluation of the
defence version and evidence. The High Court Judge’s failure to
consider the entire case against the appellant which included not only
the case for the prosecution but also the case for the defence was a
misdirection in law. Authorities are replete that the failure of a trial
judge to consider the defence amounted to a miscarriage of justice which
was sufficient on its own to have the conviction set aside. (paras 73
& 74)
(4) The defence of the appellant that he was stating his opinion on the
political crisis in the State of Perak and that the act of HRH the Sultan
of Perak was premature, fell under s. 3(2)(a) of the Sedition Act, namely
that the appellant wanted to show that the Ruler had been mistaken in
his measures. The miscarriage of justice occasioned to the appellant due
to the misdirection of the trial judge had rendered the conviction unsafe.
(paras 75 & 77)

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

19

Bahasa Malaysia Headnotes
Perayu dituduh di bawah s. 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan 1948. Pertuduhan adalah
berdasarkan kenyataan-kenyataan menghasut yang dinyatakan oleh perayu di
satu sidang akhbar berkenaan penyingkiran Menteri Besar Perak oleh
DYMM Sultan Perak. Pada akhir kes pendakwaan, perayu telah dibebaskan
oleh Mahkamah Tinggi. Terkilan dengan keputusan tersebut, pihak
pendakwaan merayu. Rayuan oleh pihak pendakwaan dibenarkan dan perayu
diperintahkan memasukkan pembelaan di Mahkamah Tinggi di hadapan
hakim bicara yang sama. Perayu membangkitkan dua isu dalam
pembelaannya (i) bahawa perayu bukan menyoal kuasa prerogatif DYMM
Sultan dalam membubarkan Dewan Undangan Negeri, tetapi hanya cara hak
itu dilaksanakan dan (ii) bahawa pertuduhan terhadap perayu di bawah Akta
Hasutan 1948 tidak mengikut perlembagaan dan terdapat pendakwaan
terpilih oleh Peguam Negara. Mengenai isu pendakwaan terpilih, memetik
dari per. 145(3) Perlembagaan Persekutuan, Mahkamah Tinggi mendapati
bahawa tiada alasan atau kuasa untuk memutuskan bahawa perayu tidak
sepatutnya dipertuduh atas alasan bahawa ia adalah pendakwaaan terpilih
dan mala fide terhadap perayu. Hakim Mahkamah Tinggi selanjutnya
memutuskan bahawa perayu telah gagal menimbulkan keraguan munasabah
ke atas kes pendakwaan dan menyimpulkan bahawa perkataan-perkataan
yang digunakan oleh perayu dalam pernyataannya cenderung kepada hasutan
yang boleh membawa kebencian atau penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia kepada pemerintah dan Kerajaan seperti yang
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(a) Akta, mempunyai kecenderungan untuk
menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau ketidaktaatan di kalangan rakyat
kepada Yang di-Pertuan Agong atau Pemerintah Negeri atau di kalangan
penduduk Malaysia atau negeri seperti yang diperuntukkan di bawah
s. 3(1)(d) dan akhir sekali seperti yang diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(f),
cenderung kepada hasutan untuk menyoal apa-apa perkara, hak, status,
kedudukan, keistimewaan, kedaulatan atau prerogatif yang ditetapkan atau
dilindungi oleh per. 181(1) Perlembagaan Persekutuan. Perayu telah
disabitkan dan didenda RM4,000 jika ingkar penjara empat bulan. Oleh itu,
rayuan ini. Isu-isu yang timbul adalah (i) sama ada Akta Hasutan adalah tidak
berperlembagaan kerana bertentangan dengan per. 10(2) Perlembagaan
Persekutuan dan melarang kebebasan bersuara dan ucapan mengenai perkaraperkara yang disediakan di dalam s. 4 dibaca bersama dengan s. 3 Akta
Hasutan; (ii) sama ada pertuduhan terhadap perayu adalah defektif dan
(iii) sama ada Hakim Mahkamah Tinggi gagal membuat dapatan sama ada
perayu telah berjaya membuktikan pembelaannya di bawah s. 3(2)(a) Akta
Hasutan, oleh itu perayu telah dinafikan perbicaraan yang adil kerana
pembelaannya tidak dinilai dengan betul.



20

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

Diputuskan (menolak rayuan; mengesahkan sabitan)
Oleh Mohtarudin Baki HMR:
(1) Isu-isu perlembagaan yang dibangkitkan telah dihuraikan dan
dilangsaikan di Mahkamah Persekutuan dalam beberapa kes dengan cara
meluas. Tiada alasan untuk menentang prinsip-prinsip yang telah
ditentukan di dalam kes PP v. Azmi Sharom berkenaan modifikasi Akta
Hasutan menurut Perlembagaan Persekutuan dan berkenaan ujian
kekadaran sama ada s. 3(3) Akta Hasutan mengenakan larangan
sepenuhnya atau sekatan berkadar. Hujahan perayu atas alasan-alasan ini
tidak mempunyai merit. Selanjutnya, berkenaan isu pertuduhan defektif,
dalam pendakwaan di bawah s. 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan, Pendakwa Raya
tidak terikat untuk mengkhususkan pertuduhan mana yang dirujuknya
daripada enam kecenderungan yang dinyatakan di dalam s. 3(1) dan ia
adalah terbuka kepadanya semasa perbicaraan untuk membuat
pemilihan.

A

B

C

(2) Ini adalah satu kesalahan yang serius yang melibatkan kedaulatan
seorang Pemerintah dan kuasa-kuasa prerogatifnya. Perayu telah
melampaui batas apabila dia mengungkap kata-kata seperti (i) “firm
reminder to him”; (ii) “he had no right to dismiss the Government
rather the State Government of MB Nizar Jamaludin”; (iii) “I’ve stated
very clearly that we will sue the Sultan together with the new State
Government as defendants if they persist” and (iv) “He is not immune
from being taken to the court”. Perayu dengan jelasnya mempunyai mens
rea apabila membuat kenyataan-kenyataan sebegitu yang cenderung
kepada hasutan dalam lingkungan s. 3(1)(a), (d) dan juga (f) Akta.

D

(3) Dalam membuat apa-apa kenyataan terutama sekali semasa sidang
akhbar terhadap Pemerintah dan kuasa-kuasa prerogatifnya, seseorang
mempunyai tanggungjawab untuk memastikan bahawa ia tidak
cenderung kepada hasutan seperti yang dibentangkan oleh s. 3(1) Akta.
Penegasan yang berterusan dan berulang perayu bahawa Pemerintah
tidak mempunyai kuasa dan bahawa beliau tidak terkecuali daripada
dibawa ke mahkamah hanya menunjukkan bahawa perayu telah
melampaui batas di antara mengungkap kata-kata yang dibenarkan
secara undang-undang dan kata-kata yang cenderung kepada hasutan.
Tidak munasabah untuk perayu yang berasal dari latar belakang undangundang, terutama sekali dengan pengetahuan luasnya berkenaan undangundang perlembagaan untuk membuat kenyataan-kenyataan sedemikian.

F

(4) Kenyataan-kenyataan yang dibuat sangat tidak menghormati Pemerintah
Negeri dan memadai untuk menjadi satu kesalahan di bawah s. 4(1)
Akta. Kenyataan-kenyataan yang dibuat oleh perayu tidak terjatuh di
bawah s. 3(2)(a) kerana ia adalah jauh daripada menunjukkan bahawa
Pemerintah telah tersalah arah atau terkhilaf apabila membubarkan

E

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

21

Dewan Undangan Negeri untuk melantik Menteri Besar yang baru. Oleh
itu, hujahan perayu bahawa hakim Mahkamah Tinggi telah gagal
membuat dapatan sama ada perayu telah membuktikan pembelaannya di
bawah s. 3(2) Akta tidak memberikan hak kepadanya untuk dilepaskan
daripada kesalahan itu. Bukan arahan tidak sama dengan salah arahan
yang serius. Oleh itu, sabitan terhadap perayu adalah selamat.
Oleh Kamardin Hashim HMR (menyetujui):

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

(1) Sekatan yang dikenakan oleh s. 4(1) Akta Hasutan 1948 tidak melanggar
ujian munasabah dan ujian perkadaran. Oleh itu, sekatan yang dikenakan
dalam s. 4(1) Akta jatuh tepat dalam lingkungan atau parameter
per. 10(2)(a) Persekutuan Perlembagaan. Sekatan yang dikenakan tidak
bertentangan dengan per. 10(2)(a). Akta oleh itu adalah secara
berperlembagaan digubal oleh Parlimen dan kekal sebagai undangundang yang sah dan dikuatkuasakan.
(2) Mahkamah undang-undang terikat untuk mentafsir undang-undang
seperti sedia ada dan untuk memberikan kesan kepada peruntukanperuntukannya. Dalam kes-kes di mana terdapat peruntukan yang tidak
berguna, adalah menjadi tanggungjawab badan perundangan untuk
membuat beberapa pindaan. Seksyen 3(2) Akta adalah sah dan dalam
semangat dan tujuan untuk menggubal Akta oleh Parlimen, iaitu untuk
membendung apa-apa perbuatan, perkataan atau penerbitan yang
cenderung kepada hasutan seperti ditakrifkan dalam s. 3(1) perenggan (a)
hingga (f) Akta.
(3) Apabila melihat kepada ungkapan-ungkapan yang dipersoalkan secara
keseluruhan, ia bertujuan untuk membawa kepada kebencian atau
penghinaan atau untuk membangkitkan perasaan tidak setia terhadap
DYMM Sultan Perak, untuk membangkitkan ketidakpuasan hati atau
penderhakaan di kalangan rakyat Baginda dan untuk menyoal apa-apa
perkara, hak, status, kedudukan, keistimewaan, kedaulatan atau
prerogatif yang terbentuk atau dilindungi oleh peruntukan-peruntukan
Bahagian III Persekutuan Perlembagaan Pemerintah Perak. Niat tidak
relevan. Kebenaran atau kepalsuan kata-kata tidak material mahupun
kesannya. Oleh itu, tiada salah laksana keadilan yang substansial berlaku
dalam kes ini. Sabitan adalah selamat.
Oleh Tengku Maimun Tuan Mat HMR (menentang):
(1) Isu modifikasi Akta Hasutan sebagai undang-undang sedia ada telah
diputuskan oleh Mahkamah Persekutuan. Ia bukan untuk mahkamah ini
“melawat semula” isu pada premis bahawa Mahkamah Persekutuan
telah gagal mempertimbangkan isu dalam konteks Tan Eng Hong. Isu
perkadaran atau sama ada s. 3(3) Akta Hasutan mengenakan larangan
sepenuhnya atau sekatan berkadar telah diputuskan dalam kes PP v. Azmi



22

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

Sharom, di mana ia telah dengan jelasnya menyatakan bahawa s. 3(2)
memperuntukkan pengecualian , s. 4(1) Akta Hasutan bukanlah larangan
keseluruhan. Tambahan, berpandukan kes Mahkamah Persekutuan
Fan Yew Teng v. PP, isu pertuduhan defektif tidak mempunyai merit.
(2) Perayu telah memberikan keterangan bersumpah dan telah diperiksa
balas. Perayu menyatakan bahawa alasan sebenar dia telah mengadakan
sidang akhbar adalah untuk kepentingan umum. Ia bertujuan untuk
memperjelaskan kepada pihak umum krisis politik yang sedang berlaku
di Perak dan dia telah memberikan pendapat undang-undang. Perayu
juga menyatakan bahawa Sultan Perak tidak boleh dipersoalkan
berkenaan prerogatifnya dan perayu juga tidak mempersoalkan kuasa
dan prerogatif Sultan Perak tetapi dia hanya mempersoalkan cara
DYMM Sultan Perak mengguna pakai prerogatif dan cara
menyelesaikan krisis, yang dari pandangan perayu adalah salah. Dan
sama ada pandangan perayu adalah betul atau salah, itu adalah
pendapatnya.
(3) Pastinya pembelaan yang diberikan secara bersumpah harus dianalisis
dan dinilai oleh Mahkamah Tinggi. Walau bagaimanapun, tiada
penilaian dilakukan berkenaan versi dan keterangan pembelaan.
Kegagalan Hakim Mahkamah Tinggi mempertimbangkan keseluruhan
kes terhadap perayu termasuk bukan hanya kes untuk pendakwaan tetapi
juga kes untuk pembelaan adalah satu salah arahan undang-undang.
Autoriti penuh dengan kegagalan hakim bicara mempertimbangkan
pembelaan yang membawa kepada salah laksana keadilan yang memadai
untuk mengetepikan sabitan.
(4) Pembelaan perayu bahawa dia menyatakan pendapatnya berkenaan
krisis politik di Negeri Perak dan bahawa tindakan DYMM Sultan
Perak adalah pramatang, terangkum di bawah s. 3(2)(a) Akta Hasutan,
iaitu perayu hendak menunjukkan bahawa Pemimpin telah terkhilaf
dalam langkah-langkah beliau. Salah laksana keadilan telah berlaku
kepada perayu disebabkan salah arahan hakim bicara oleh itu sabitan
adalah tidak selamat.
Case(s) referred to:
Ahmad Najib Aris v. PP [2009] 2 CLJ 800 FC (refd)
Alcontara Ambross Anthony v. PP [1996] 1 CLJ 705 FC (refd)
Assa Singh v. Menteri Besar, Johore [1968] 1 LNS 9 FC (refd)
Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85 FC (refd)
Bato Bagi & Ors. v. Kerajaan Negeri Sarawak & Another Appeal [2011] 8 CLJ 766 FC
(refd)
Chai Tee Keiong v. PP [2013] 1 LNS 975 CA (refd)
Chang Lee Swee v. PP [1984] 1 LNS 134 HC (refd)
Er Ah Kiat v. PP [1965] 1 LNS 37 FC (refd)
Fan Yew Teng v. PP [1975] 1 LNS 38 FC (refd)
Jamaluddin Mohd Radzi & Ors v. Sivakumar Varatharaju Naidu; Suruhanjaya Pilihan
Raya (Intervener) [2009] 4 CLJ 347 FC (refd)

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

23

Mat Shuhaimi Shafiei v. PP [2014] 5 CLJ 22 CA (refd)
Melan Abdullah & Anor v. PP [1971] 1 LNS 77 HC (refd)
Mohamed Din v. PP [1984] 1 LNS 171 (refd)
Mohamed Shariff v. PP [1964] 1 LNS 114 HC (refd)
Mohd Johi Said & Anor v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 389 CA (refd)
Mohd Nazri Omar & Ors v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 576 CA (refd)
Mraz v. The Queen (1955) 93 CLR 493 (refd)
Nguyen Quoc Viet v. PP [2016] 1 CLJ 365 CA (refd)
Nyambirai v. National Social Security Authority [1996] 1 LRC 64 (refd)
PP v. Azmi Sharom [2015] 8 CLJ 921 FC (refd)
PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580 CA (refd)
PP v. Kok Wah Kuan [2007] 6 CLJ 341 FC (refd)
PP v. Mark Koding [1982] 1 LNS 96 HC (refd)
PP v. Sihabduin Hj Salleh & Anor [1981] CLJ 39; [1981] CLJ (Rep) 82 FC (refd)
PP v. Su Liang Yu [1976] 1 LNS 113 HC (refd)
Prasit Punyang v. PP [2014] 7 CLJ 392 CA (refd)
Re Tan Boon Liat @ Allen & Anor Et Al; Tan Boon Liat v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam
Negeri & Ors And Chuah Han Mow v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors And
Subramaniam v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors [1977] 1 LNS 110 FC
(refd)
Rozmi Yusof v. PP [2013] 4 CLJ 384 CA (refd)
Sivarasa Rasiah v. Badan Peguam Malaysia & Anor [2010] 3 CLJ 507 FC (refd)
Songsil Udtoom & Ors v. PP [2016] 1 CLJ 39 CA (refd)
Surinder Singh Kanda v. The Government of the Federation of Malaya [1960] 1 LNS 132
HC (refd)
Tan Eng Hong v. Attorney-General [2012] 4 SLR 476 (refd)
Teh Cheng Poh v. PP [1978] 1 LNS 202 PC (refd)
Tunde Apatira & Ors v. PP [2001] 1 CLJ 381 FC (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Courts of Judicature Act 1964, s. 60(1)
Criminal Procedure Code, ss. 152(4), 182A(1)
Federal Constitution, arts. 10(2)(a), 145(3), 162(6), 181(1)
Sedition Act 1948, ss. 3(1)(a), (d), (f), (2)(a), 3(3), 4(1)(b)
Constitution of the Republic of Singapore [Sing], arts. 4, 9, 12, 14
Criminal Appeal Act 1912 [Aus], s. 6(1)
Penal Code (Cap 224) [Sing] s. 377A
Rules of Court (Cap 322) [Sing], O. 18 r. 19
For the appellant - Gobind Singh Deo, Ramkarpal Singh, Aliff Bolkin, Malik Imtiaz,
Mohd Haijan Omar, S Prakash, Ravin Jay, R Rishikessingam & RSN Rayer;
M/s Karpal Singh & Co
For the respondent - Awang Armadajaya Awang Mahmud & Hamdan Hamzah; DPPs
[Editor’s note: For the High Court judgment, please see PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh
[2009] 9 CLJ 688 (affirmed).]

Reported by Suhainah Wahiduddin
I



24

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

JUDGMENT

A

Mohtarudin Baki JCA:
[1]
In this case, the appellant was initially acquitted by the High Court for
a charge under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948 at the end of the
prosecution’s case. Aggrieved by the said decision, the prosecution appealed
to this court. The appeal by the prosecution was allowed and the appellant
was ordered to enter upon his defence at the High Court before the same trial
judge. The grounds of judgment of this court was reported (see PP lwn. Karpal
Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580; [2012] 4 MLJ 443). Having heard the
defence put forth by the appellant, the High Court Judge ruled that he had
failed in casting a reasonable doubt on the prosecution’s case. The appellant
was then convicted and fined RM4,000 in default, four months
imprisonment. Hence this appeal.
[2]

B

C

In the High Court, the charge against the appellant reads as follows:
Bahawa kamu pada 6 Februari 2009 jam antara 12.00 tengahari dan 12.30
petang di Tetuan Karpal Singh & Co yang beralamat No.67, Jalan Pudu
Lama, dalam Daerah Dang Wangi, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
dalam satu sidang akhbar telah menyebut kata-kata menghasut (transkrip
ucapan dilampirkan sebagai LAMPIRAN ‘A’ kepada pertuduhan ini dan
kata-kata menghasut digariskan); dan oleh yang demikian, kamu telah
melakukan satu kesalahan di bawah seksyen 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan 1948
(Akta 15) dan boleh dihukum di bawah seksyen 4(1) Akta yang sama.

[3]
The appellant had committed the alleged offence as above in a press
conference held by him due to the removal of the then Perak Menteri Besar,
Datuk Seri Haji Nizar bin Jamaluddin by His Royal Highness (HRH) the
Sultan of Perak. For easy reference, Lampiran “A” reads:

D

E

F

Transkrip Video Kenyataan Akhbar Oleh YB Karpal Singh Di Pejabat
Peguam Karpal Singh No. 67, Jalan Pudu Lama, 50200 Kuala Lumpur
Pada 6.2.2009 @ 12.00 Tengahari
I think I baca statement, yang ada depan saya sekarang ini,

G

The removal of Perak Menteri Besar, Datuk Seri Haji Nizar bin
Jamaluddin, by the Sultan of Perak purportedly pursuant to Article 16(6)
of the Constitution of the State of Perak which is stated here in brackets,
is clearly ultra (sic) vires the provisions of this article.
In law, the decision of the Sultan of Perak can be questioned in a court
of law. As far back as the 12th of May 1977, a strong five men bench of
the Federal Court ruled that the decision of the Yang Dipertuan Agong
to confirm three detention orders under the emergency (Public Order and
prevention on crime) Ordinance 1969 was amenable to judicial review if
it was ultra vires the provisions of the Federal Constitution. The Federal
Court unanimously ruled, although the orders of the detention had been
confirmed by the King, that decision was ultra vires Article 1(5)(1)(b) of the
Federal Constitution as that confirmation was made outside and beyond
the period of three months stipulated in that article.

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

With that ruling of the Federal Court which has stood the test of time
for 32 years beyond a pale of doubt, the Sultan of Perak has contravened
Article 16(6) of the Constitutions of the State of Perak.
The Pakatan Rakyat State Government had the mantle of legitimacy it
still has. In my view the election commission had through its chairman,
Tan Sri Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof publicly ruled that there was a doubt
over the vacancy of the seats of PKR Changkat Jering assemblyman,
Mohd Osman Mohd Jailu, and PKR Behrang assemblyman Jamaludin
Mohd Razi after the letters submitted by Perak assembly speaker
V. Sivakumar in relation to their letters of resignation were conducted or
rather contradicted by denials from both these assemblymen. This
triggered the provisions of Article 33(1) which states [if any question arises
whether a member of the Legislative assembly has a been disqualified for
membership, the decision of the assembly shall be taken and shall be
final.]
Therefore for the assembly to decide on the status of these 3, of these
assemblymen and not the Sultan of Perak who determine that they
remain independent despite having submitted undated letters of
resignation to the Perak Assembly speaker and therefore with their
presence at the Istana and their pledge of allegiance to the Barisan
Nasional together with DAP Jelapang assemblywoman, Hee Yit Foong,
the Pakatan Rakyat Government could no longer hold onto office.

G

In my view, until such time, the Assembly has invoked the provisions of
Article 33(1) both Mohd Osman Mohd Jailu and Jamaludin Mohd Razi
remained PKR assemblymen together with Jelapang assemblywoman Hee
Yit Foong, remaining with the DAP until her resignation letter was
subjected to determination by the Assembly pursuant to Article 33(1)
thereby causing the Pakatan Rakyat to have 31members in the assembly
of 60 members. It cannot therefore be said that the Sultan of Perak acted
intra vires in fact acted ultra vires Article 16(6) when he determined that
Menteri Besar, Nizar Jamaludin had ceased to command the confidence
of the majority of the members of the legislative assembly and was
therefore required to tender resignation of the executive council over
which he presided including his own resignation.

H

Clearly the Sultan of Perak cannot invoke his powers under Article 16(1)
which states [His Royal Highness shall appoint an Executive Council to
appoint a Barisan Nasional Executive Council with a new Menteri Besar
and a new Government. The Government of a Menteri Besar Dato’ Haji
Nizar bin Jamaludin still had constitutional (sic) supremacy and legitimacy.
The actions of the Sultan of Perak are clearly, premature.

F

I

I call upon the Sultan to cease and desist from appointing a new Barisan
Nasional Menteri Besar and executive council later this afternoon. This
in no way should be construe as a threat to the Sultan but on the other
hand a firm reminder to him that he is required to act within the
parameters and confines of the sacred constitutional document that is the
constitution of the State of Perak which is the supreme law of that state

25



26

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

The following words of Raja Muda of Perak, Raja Dr. Nazrin Shah,
during the pledge of loyalty at the special investiture in conjunction with
the silver jubilee celebration of Sultan Azlan Shah as the 34th Sultan of
Perak at Istana Iskandariah on 3rd February 2009 bear repetition. Quote,
“The rule, as the head of state and country, needs to be neutral, nonpartisan, and free of having personel interest to ensure justice for the
people”.
Raja Nazrin also said that the power entrusted by Allah should be
discharged with responsibility because he (the Ruler) would be judged in
the hereafter. As such he said power must be exercised to implement goo
practices adding that the ruler’s nobility and honour, position, and
sovereignty do not come automatically.

A

B

C

It is my view that the Pakatan Rakyat Government headed by Nizar
Jamaludin should be allowed without any hindrance for any quarter to
invoke the provisions of Article 33(1). It is after this exercise that the
intervention on the Sultan of Perak could become if at all necessary.
If the Sultan persists in appointing a Barisan Nasional Executive Council
and Menteri Besar, later at 3pm today, the Pakatan Rakyat will have no
alternative but to seek a judicial pronouncement in the interest of the
rakyat in Perak. The judicial proceedings will inevitably include the
purported new State Government. This will, in turn, cause unnecessary
apprehension, anxiety an concern which should be averted at all costs.

D

E

Questions And Answers
Well that is my statement. Are there any question?
(… inaudible …)
Beyond the powers conferred on him under the Constitution of the State
of Perak. That he had no right, that he had no right to dismiss the
Government rather the State Government of MB Nizar Jamaludin. The
lawful Government is still the Government, the Pakatan Rakyat
Government.

F

(Question from reporter … YB, can you … (unclear) …)
G

In fact, I’ve stated very clearly that we will sue the Sultan together with
the new State Government as defendants if they persist. If they don’t, this
afternoon, if what I said is right, and the Sultan is prepared to accept that,
then things are perfectly in order. The old Government would still be in
power.
In fact, over Article 83 or rather 63 of the Constitution of the State of
Perak. We give copies of it. I’ll read what is that. What the Sultan of Perak
can do is this under Article 64 and that states, His Royal Highness may
refer to the Federal Court for tis decision or rather its opinion any
question as to the effect of any provisions of this constitution which has
a reason or appears to his Royal Highness likely to arise and the Federal
Court shall pronounce in open court to his opinion on any question so

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

referred to it. In other words, under Article 64 the Sultan can now refer
this question and question would be whether these 3 assemblymen are
still members of the assembly as.
Because if that is so, and I say that is so until such time as the State of
Assembly decides under Article 33(1) as to whether they are still qualified
to sit in the assembly they remain members of the Pakatan Rakyat.
Pakatan Rakyat assembly, assemblymen.
(Question from reporter … YB it’s look like the Barisan Nasional new …
(unclear) … tomorrow …)

C

D

E

F

Well tomorrow is a holiday, the suit will be filed on Tuesday because
Monday is also a holiday. In fact I call upon the Sultan to carefully
consider what he has in fact done. The Sultan has no right to call the
32 members, or assemblymen rather, to the Istana and questioned them
one by one as to where their allegiance lay, because that is not within the
confines of a what the Sultan could do. That is the a job of the assembly
to decide under Article 33(1). The Sultan cannot usurp the powers of the
State Assembly.
In fact, I have cited two cases there, in fact the first case if you all can
have a look at it. This is the decision of the 5 member bench of the
Federal Court way back in a 1977 May 12. If you look at it, this is what
was decided by the Court. Now in this case what has happened was
3 detention orders were confirmed by the Yang Di-Pertuan Agong. But
that confirmation was outside the 3 month period provided for under
Article 151(B) of the Federal Constitution, and this is what the Federal
Court a held, it’s at page 5. It’s marked paragraph 3. Although the note,
although the orders of detention in these cases had been confirmed by
the King, that decision was ultra vires and could be corrected by the Court.
So we are saying here what the Sultan Perak has done is ultra vires the
Constitution of the State of Perak and the Court has jurisdiction to a set
that right. It’s as simple as that. A very simple constitutional issue.
(Question from reporter … Sorry YB, could you explain ultra vires in
layman terms?

G

H

I

Ultra vires a means a is acting beyond, you don’t have the power to act
beyond what the, the, the a you know a Constitution provides. Which is
only the assembly can decide on whether assemblymen in view of these
letters. Even … election Commission said there’s a doubt as to whether
the letters were valid. And Article 33 vary a clearly states if any question
arises with regard to whether an assemblyman’s qualified or not, the
decision shall be taken by the assembly. In fact, the a, the a present State
Government, the Government which has in fact been dismissed by the
Sultan, can convene a meeting even today and I tender Article 33(1) and
determine whether those letters are valid and even assuming the assembly
decides that these 3 are in fact no more a lawfully elected assemblymen
then there’s a deadlock. It would mean 28:28. 28 for the Barisan and
28 for the Pakatan Rakyat which means there’s a deadlock, which means

27



28

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

then the Sultan of Perak should order a snap election in the State of
Perak. He should dissolve the assembly, but he cannot act in the manner
he has done.

A

(Question from reporter … Do you think Malaysia is facing a perhaps
constitutional crisis?
Well, it’s not Malaysia, the State of Perak is. But this could extend to
other states, and we wouldn’t want that kind of position. As I said, there’s
a way out, way out. The Sultan can act under Article 64, refer this
question to the Federal Court vis-a-vis the facts and circumstances of this
case. Whether he could act under Article 16(6) to dismiss the Government
of a Nizar Jamaludin. As I keep saying our view is that the Government
of Nizar Jamaludin, the Pakatan State Government still is the valid and
lawful one.
I’ve tried to make it as clear as I can in the statement I have made. I’m
backing up whatever I’m saying by cases, a by the Federal Court and the
second case. If I could t..t..t.. take it to you the case of Fan Yew Teng, this
was way back in 1975
… If I remember correctly, ya, March 12, 1975 … I did this case, in fact.
What had happened was the same a constitutional provision came into
a, a question, at page 15. Article 53 of the a Federal Constitution states
if any question arises whether member of the House in Parliament has
become disqualified the decision of the House shall be taken and shall
be final. Exactly the same as Article 33(1) and the Court held that a there
Fan Yew Teng did not stand disqualified this by way of conviction. In
fact a by-election was called after he was convicted by the High Court.
He got an injunction to stop the by election. The Court granted it because
it was for the Parliament to decide whether it’s a result of the conviction
he had become disqualified.
(Question from reporter … YB, so you said that, since now the three have
a submitted their resignation to the assembly, so the assembly should
have the final say to tell them as they have a mean they are not valid
member of the assembly, so by-election should be held or snap …
(unclear) …

B

C

D

E

F

G

Oh .. oh … a snap election. The Sultan has got no right to intervene. He
can’t, under these circumstances I must say. He has certain rights but
those rights do not arise under the a present state of affairs in the State
of Perak.
(Question from reporter … Do you think the resignation letter is still valid
because the date was fill … (unclear) …
Does not matter, let the assembly decide, let the assembly decide. The
Sultan cannot decide. He has no power. We are going by the constitution.
Sultan is bound by the constitution of the State of Perak. He’s not
immune from being taken to the Court. But I’ll make it very clear. I got

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

That, that in fact, it’ s unlawful,. That, that whoever has stopped him from
excluding his duties is committing an offense under the penal code –
obstruction of a public servant in the execution of his duty. I hope
whoever is doing it realises what is being done. In fact, a letter has been
sent out by the state Secretary to the Menteri Besar and all the actual
members of the Pakatan Rakyat Government that they are required to go
to the office and collect their personel effects and no other documents.
(Cough) You can’t shut out a Menteri Besar who has been lawfully
elected from entering his own office. It’s an abuse of power on the part
of whoever did it. And I hope he’s prepared for the consequences, and
we must make it very clear that the Pakatan Rakyat is very serious about
what is going on in the state of Perak. We don’t want it to spread
elsewhere.
(Question from reporter … What happened will happened to them also
… (unclear …)

D

E

Well I’m they are not worried. I don’t think anything will happened
elsewhere, but the, the fact remains. We don’t want a precedent like this.
You can’t grab power. You must get the power from the people in a
constitutional manner. And I’m surprised that the Deputy Prime Minister
is in fact a heading the charge in Perak including the Prime Minister
himself. What is being done is very high-ended. Unbecoming of a Prime
Minister and his Deputy. They got no business in fact to be even there.
It’s better for the state assemblymen in UMNO that they should take it
up with the Sultan. Why, why should the a Sultan even give an audience
to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. They had no business
to be there.
Ada apa-apa soalan lain?

F

G

H

I

(Question from reporter … is Pakatan going to a launch a huge rally to
show the protest … (unclear) …)
Oh. That’s a separate matter. My task is a you know to sort of take it
from a legal side. They want the law to prevail and we want the
constitutional provision to prevail. It’s all wrong to take power on the
strengths of crossovers, crossovers a people who are guilty of treachery
to the rakyat. In fact, crossing over should be a made a criminal offence.
It’s cheating the public. It’s a very very serious matter to a cheat out of
having been elected on a, on a PKR ticket to crossover or for that matter
on DAP ticket to crossover. You got no business to do that. You are not
elected on the Barisan Nasional ticket. You go back to the people.
(Question from reporter … YB, does your statement applies to both ruling
an opposition party … (unclear) …)
Yes, my statement applies to both. In fact I say Anwar Ibrahim was wrong
in having started a campaign to a take power on the strengths of
crossovers. What he did was not right. What has to be said will be said.
You can’t take power, or grab power on the strengths of crossovers.

29



30

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

Likewise, Najib is wrong, so why not, why not amend the Federal
Constitution. I’ve been saying that all the time. At the moment the
Federal Court has decided and this was a case coming from Kelantan.
Kelantan had an anti-hopping law enacted in 1991, the Federal Court
declared that the anti-hopping law was unconstitutional on the ground
that it contravened. Article 10 of the Federal Constitution which says you
have a right to form associations. The right to associated (sic) include the
right to disassociate, that’s what the Federal Court said.
The Federal Court has made a decision. The only way to get around the
decision is to amend the Federal Constitution … to outlaw party hopping.
I think the people, the country are disgusted with party hopping. And
every effort should be made by the elected residents of the people. To
amend not only the Federal Constitution, but all states constitution to
include a anti-hopping law. In fact, anti-hopping law should be made a
criminal offence. Whoever does that should be put in prison. Barisan
Nasional Government does not have a two-third (sic) majority in
Parliament at the moment to amend the Federal Constitution. I say now
that the DAP will prepare, is prepared rather to give them not 9, they need
9 seats to make up two-third majority. We’ll give them 28. I’ll persuade
Anwar Ibrahim and PAS to also support that amendment. At the moment
PAS and PKR support party hopping, which is wrong. The DAP does not.
Our stand has always been from the time the DAP was a in fact a set up
way back in 1966 and it was formed until now our stand is very clear. You
cannot cheat the Rakyat. Party hopping is something abhorrent,
unacceptable, and indefensible.

A

B

C

D

E

Any other question?
Dan dari segi Perlembagaan Negeri Perak, adalah terus terang apa yang
ada di mengisytiharkan oleh Sultan Perak iaitu a Kerajaan Negeri Pakatan
Rakyat tidak sah tentang dengan peruntukan Perkara 16(6) Perlembagaan
a Perak. Apa yang dibuat tidak a boleh dimempertahankan. Adakah tiga
ahli Dewan Undangan Negeri Perak apabila menandatangani satu surat
letak jawatan, a letak jawatan, adakah itu sah, adalah untuk a Dewan
Undangan Negeri Perak membuat keputusan. Tidak ada pihak lain yang
ada kuasa untuk a buat demikian, termasuk Sultan Perak.
Apa yang saya menyatakan tadi ada satu a langkah yang lain yang boleh
digunakan iaitu rombakan Perkara 64 Perlembagaan Negeri Perak iaitu
Sultan Perak ada kuasa untuk a rujuk satu soalan, soalan mengenai
peruntukan dalam a Perlembagaan Negeri Perak dari segi apa yang ada
keadaan di negeri itu untuk menentukan sapa ada kuasa. Kuasa dalam
tangan Dewan Undangan Negeri untuk mengisytiharkan adakah tiga
DUN a ADUN ini, ADUN yang tidak letak jawatan atau sudah letak
jawatan. Bukan Sultan Perak untuk memanggil 32 ADUN ke Istana dan
menyoal dia.
Adakah dia masih ahli Dewan Undangan Negeri bagi a Keadilan atau
DAP. Itu bukan kuasa Sultan Perak, itu kuasa Negeri, Kerajaan Negeri
yang sah. Kerajaan Negeri yang akan di a mengisytiharkan a pada
3 petang ini, tidak sah. Jika itu dibuat, kami akan rujuk perkara ini ke

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

31

Mahkamah Tinggi di Ipoh pada hari Selasa depan satu kes akan difailkan.
Dalam kes itu, Sultan Perak akan jadi penentang yang a atau a responden,
defendan akan dinamakan sebagai defendan yang pertama dan Kerajaan
Negeri baru yang akan dia mengisytiharkan pada pukul 3 setengah petang
ini, sebagai defendan yang kedua. Dan Plaintif adalah Datuk Seri a Nizar
Jamaludin. Dia akan memfailkan kes itu sebagai Menteri Besar yang sah
untuk dapat satu a pengisytiharan daripada Mahkamah untuk a
memputuskan dia adalah Menteri Besar yang sah dan bukan a Menteri
Besar dan exco yang akan di um …bersumpah pada 3 setengah petang ini.
Itu adalah dengan ringkas apa yang saya menyatakan dalam bahasa
Inggeris tadi. Adakah apa-apa soalan?
(Question from reporter … You sebagai lawyer on behalf … (unclear) …)
Yes…yes, yes, saya lawyer bagi … Bukan saya sahaja, saya dengan
Gobind Singh Deo, Ram Karpal Singh, Sanggit Kaur, Deo dan peguampeguam lain dalam parti bukan DAP sahaja, tetapi Keadilan dan PAS

D

(Question from reporter … Kira-kira jumlah berapa lawyer yang akan filein next week?)
a Itu tidak ditentukan, menentukan, di saat ini.
(Question from reporter … YB, sekarang Sultan Perak desak letak jawatan
… Datuk Seri … (unclear) …)

E

Tidak ada kuasa apa yang saya menyatakan tadi. Ini tentang, tentang, dan
a …
(reporter: (cont) … keluar daripada Perak State …)

F

Tidak boleh. Sultan tidak ada kuasa untuk a apa ni buang negeri. Saya
ingat sesuatu warganegara dalam a Malaysia. Tidak ada, tidak ada kuasa
untuk buat demikian.
One way, or another by Court of Law a by, by the State Assembly, and
after that by the Court of Law. So what the Sultan is doing is premature,
as I said, because, the Pakatan State Government is still in the majority.

G

AFZAN SAKINA SULAIMAN, AISHAH AHMAD AZAM

The Prosecution’s Case

H

I

[4]
As mentioned earlier, on appeal against the acquittal of the appellant,
this court ruled that the prosecution had succeeded in establishing a prima
facie case and thus, the appellant was called upon to enter his defence. Briefly,
this court (the first Court of Appeal) found that the appellant did indeed utter
the seditious words in a frequent manner throughout his press statement as
per the transcript produced above. The content of the press statement’s
transcript was thoroughly analysed, whereby Ahmad bin Haji Maarop JCA
(as he then was) held that:
[101] … Setelah menimbangkan dengan teliti perkataan-perkataan
responden seperti dalam P3 ayat demi ayat dan menimbangkan perkataanperkataan tersebut secara keseluruhannya serta konteks dalam mana



32

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

perkataan-perkataan tersebut disebut, dan setelah memberi latitude
sebanyak yang wajar kepada responden untuk memberikan komen politik
dan pandangan undang-undang sebagai ahli Parlimen dan peguam kanan
yang terkemuka, tiada keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa berdasarkan
kepada undang-undang yang berkuat kuasa dan keterangan yang
dikemukakan di Mahkamah di peringkat ini, responden telah melepasi
garis yang memisahkan pernyataan perkataan-perkataan yang dibenarkan
oleh undang-undang dengan pernyataan perkataan-perkataan menghasut.
Tiada keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden itu
bukan perkataan-perkataan yang mempunyai kecenderungan untuk
menunjukkan bahawa DYMM Sultan Perak telah terkeliru atau tersilap.
Oleh itu di peringkat ini pembelaan di bawah s. 3(2)(a) Akta 15 adalah
tidak terpakai. Kami berpuas hati bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden
mempunyai kecenderungan:

A

B

C

(a) Bagi mendatangkan kebencian dan penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia terhadap DYMM Sultan Perak seperti
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(d) Akta 15.
(b) Bagi menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau tidak setia di
kalangan rakyat DYMM Sultan Perak seperti diperuntukkan di
bawah s. 3(1)(d) Akta 15.
[102] Selanjutnya, tiada keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa perkataanperkataan responden itu mempunyai kecenderungan yang diperuntukkan
di bawah s. 3(1)(f) Akta 15, iaitu kecenderungan bagi mempersoalkan
kuasa prerogative DYMM Sultan Perak yang ditetapkan atau dilindungi
di bawah perkara 181(1) Perlembagaan Persekutuan.

D

E

The Defence
[5]
At the High Court, the appellant had two issues in his defence. The
first issue was that the appellant was not questioning the prerogative power
of HRH the Sultan in dissolving the State Assembly, but just the manner the
prerogative was exercised. The appellant felt that the exercise of the powers
by HRH the Sultan was premature. The appellant as a lawyer was just giving
his legal opinion and as a Member of Parliament he just did his duty to
explain to the public on the political crisis in the State of Perak. He also
denied giving a warning or threat to the HRH the Sultan.
[6]
The second issue was that the charge against the appellant under
Sedition Act 1948 was unconstitutional and there was a selective prosecution
by the Attorney General.

F

G

H

Findings Of The High Court At The End Of The Defence Case
[7]
The appellant had relied on cases of Re Tan Boon Liat @ Allen & Anor
Et Al; Tan Boon Liat v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors And Chuah Han
Mow v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors And Subramaniam v. Menteri Hal
Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors [1978] 1 LNS 202; [1979] 1 MLJ 50 to establish
a point that a HRH Sultan can be sued in court. However, the prosecution

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

33

argues that these cases are distinguishable based on their respective facts. The
High Court Judge agreed with the prosecution that these cases are irrelevant
to support the appellant’s contention.
[8]
On the second issue, the High Court Judge ruled that there is no option
for the court to decide on the prerogative powers of the prosecutor in
prosecuting someone as enshrined under art. 145(3) of the Federal
Constitution.
[9]
Subsequently the High Court decided that the appellant had failed to
cast a reasonable doubt on the prosecution’s case. The words that he uttered
in his statement had seditious tendency to bring into hatred or contempt or
to excite disaffection against a Ruler and a Government as provided under
s. 3(1)(a), had tendency to raise discontent or disaffection amongst the
subjects of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong or of the Ruler of any State or amongst
the inhabitants of Malaysia or of any State as provided under s. 3(1)(d) and
finally as provided under s. 3(1)(f), had seditious tendency to question any
matter, right, status, position, privilege, sovereignty or prerogative
established or protected by the art. 181(1) of the Federal Constitution. Thus,
the appellant was convicted and fined RM4,000 in default four months of
imprisonment.
The Appeal
[10] The appellant was represented by his wife, Madam Gurmit Kaur
a/p Sohan Singh as he had passed away on 17 April 2014.
[11] The issues canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant were as
follows:

F

(a) The Sedition Act is unconstitutional as it is contrary to art. 10(2) of the
Federal Constitution and it prohibits freedom of expression and speech
on the matters provided in s. 4 read with s. 3 of the Sedition Act.
(b) The charge against the appellant was defective.

G

H

I

(c) The High Court Judge failed to make a finding whether or not the
appellant had succeeded in establishing his defence under s. 3(2)(a) of the
Sedition Act, thus he was denied a fair trial as his defence was not
evaluated properly.
[12] The appellant’s counsel submitted that the Sedition Act is a premerdeka law and still existing in which it could not be modified under
cl. 6 of art. 162 of the Federal Constitution. The counsel relied upon the
cases of Surinder Singh Kanda v. The Government of the Federation of Malaya
[1960] 1 LNS 132; [1962] 28 MLJ 169; Assa Singh v. Menteri Besar, Johore
[1968] 1 LNS 9; [1969] 2 MLJ 30 and Tan Eng Hong v. Attorney-General
[2012] 4 SLR 476 and submitted that if an existing law cannot be modified
to make it in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Constitution, that



34

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

law cannot be applied by any court under art. 162. Learned counsel also
submitted that s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act totally prohibits any views or
discussions pertaining matters that may have a ‘seditious tendency’ as can be
seen in s. 3(1) of the Act. According to counsel, this prohibits freedom of
speech and expression. Counsel relied on PP v. Azmi Sharom [2015] 8 CLJ
921 and contended that although the Federal Court was correct on the
proportionality test, it has overlooked s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act when it was
ruled that s. 4(1) is not a total prohibition because of the exceptions provided
under s. 3(2) of the Act.
[13] Notwithstanding the first issue, it was also argued in the alternative
that the charge against the appellant was defective because it did not state
exactly under which limb of s. 3 of the Sedition Act was relied upon by the
prosecution to establish a case against the appellant. Further the appellant’s
counsel also claimed that the defence was not evaluated independently and
the High Court Judge did not make a finding whether the appellant’s defence
fall under s. 3(2) of the Sedition Act. Thus the appellant was denied a fair
trial.

A

B

C

D

My Finding
[14] The constitutional issues raised by learned counsel had been ventilated
and settled by the Federal Court in various decided cases in an extensive
manner. I find no reason to go against the principles established in the case
of Azmi Sharom (supra) with regards of modification of the Sedition Act in
accordance with the Federal Constitution and on proportionality test whether
s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act imposes a total prohibition or proportionate
restriction. I found the appellant’s submission on these grounds had no
compelling merits for us to interfere.
[15] For the issue of defective charge, I took guidance from the case of Fan
Yew Teng v. PP [1975] 1 LNS 38; [1975] 2 MLJ 235 on a similar subject
where the Federal Court observed that in a prosecution under s. 4(1)(b) of
the Sedition Act, the Public Prosecutor is not bound to specify in the charge
on which of the six tendencies set out in s. 3(1) he relies and it is open to
him during the course of the trial to pick and choose. Thus, in my opinion
this issue bereft of any merit.
[16] The appellant’s counsel also argued that the appellant had no
intentions (mens rea) in committing the said offence and it is within the ambit
of s. 3(2)(a) of the Act. Although the learned High Court Judge (HCJ) did not
consider or rather failed to direct his mind in evaluating the appellant’s
defence especially with regard to the fourth and fifth grounds of appeal, I am
of the view that this court at the appellate level is duty bound to consider
whether the conviction against the appellant is safe or not. This issue was
canvassed in Mohd Johi Said & Anor v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 389, wherein Gopal
Sri Ram JCA said:

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

A

Unlike civil appeals, where the appellant carries the burden of showing
that the judge at first instance went wrong, in a criminal case the duty
of the court is to consider whether the conviction is right. The correct
approach is therefore not whether the decision is wrong but whether the
conviction is safe. (emphasis added)

B

Note: See also section 60 Court of Judicature Act 1964.

C

D

35

[17] Guided by the principle above, it is my humble opinion that the
conviction is safe. This is a serious offence involving sovereignty of a Ruler
and his prerogative powers. It was not denied that the learned HCJ did not
make a finding on whether the appellant had made out a defence under s. 3(2)
of the Sedition Act (the Act). Section 3(2) of the Act provides exceptions
where if an accused person can show that his statement falls under paras. (a),
(b), or (c) of s. 3(2) of the Act, he will succeed in his defence regardless of
the fact that the prosecution has proven an offence under s. 3(3) of the Act.
The relevant paragraph in this case was s. 3(2)(a) of the Act which provides:
(2) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) an act, speech, words,
publication or other thing shall not be deemed to be seditious by reason
only that it has a tendency:
(a) to show that any Ruler has been misled or mistaken in any of his
measures;

E

F

[18] Question arises as to where to draw the line in making a statement that
is deemed to show that the Ruler has been misled or mistaken in exercising
his prerogative power within the limit as provided by the Act without any
seditious tendency. In the present case, it was quiet obvious that the appellant
had crossed his limits when he uttered phrases such as:
(i) “firm reminder to him”,
(ii) “he had no right to dismiss the government rather the State
Government of MB Nizar Jamaludin”,

G

(iii) “I’ve stated very clearly that we will sue the Sultan together with
the new State Government as defendants if they persist”,
(iv) “He is not immune from being taken to the court”.

H

It is apparent that the appellant clearly had mens rea in making such
statements which has seditious tendency within the ambit of s. 3(1)(a), (d) and
also (f) of the Act.
[19] Mens rea could only be inferred from the circumstances of the case.
There are numerous of authorities to the effect. However, I would like to
refer the case of Mat Shuhaimi Shafiei v. PP [2014] 5 CLJ 22, Abdul Malik
Ishak JCA (as he then was) had this to say:

I

… Under the said Act, intention is irrelevant. As long as the speech or
publication had a seditious tendency, an offence is committed. It is akin
to an offence of strict liability. We reiterate the principles established by



36

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

Public Prosecutor v. Ooi Kee Saik & Ors (supra) to the effect that the truth or
falsity of the words uttered is immaterial and it is not a defence to a
charge for sedition. And whether the words complained of could have the
effect of producing or did in fact produce any of the consequences listed
in s. 3(1)(a) to (f) of the Sedition Act is immaterial.

A

[20] It was never denied that the appellant had acted in his capacity as a
Member of Parliament and had given a legal opinion based on his knowledge
that he had in legal field. However, it is noteworthy that in making any
statement especially in a press conference against the Ruler and his
prerogative powers, one has a responsibility to be absolutely sure that it has
no seditious tendency as laid out by s. 3(1) of the Act. The appellant’s
continuous and repeated averments that the Ruler has no power and that he
is not immune from being taken to court were only show that he had crossed
the line between uttering words that are legally permitted and the ones that
have seditious tendency. It is unreasonable for appellant who was from legal
background, especially with vast knowledge in constitutional law to have
come up with such statements. At this juncture, I find it convenient and
adequate to just adapt the same view as was discussed in a great length by
Ahmad Haji Maarop, the then JCA in ordering the appellant to enter his
defence at the end of prosecution’s case in his grounds of judgment (see
PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580; [2012] 4 MLJ 443).

B

[21] Further the appellant had also given an ultimatum in his statement
when he said as below:
If the Sultan persists in appointing a Barisan Nasional Executive Council
and Menteri Besar, later at 3pm today, the pakatan Rakyat will have no
alternative but to seek a judicial pronouncement in the interest of the
rakyat in Perak. The judicial proceedings will inevitably include the
purported new state government. This will, in turn, cause unnecessary
apprehension, anxiety and concern which should be averted at all costs.
(emphasis added)

[22] The above statement, in my opinion is very disrespectful to be made
against any Ruler of a State and suffice to constitute an offence under s. 4(1)
of the Act. I find that the statements by the appellant do not fall under
s. 3(2)(a) as they were far-fetched from only showing that the Ruler has been
misled or mistaken in dissolving the State Assembly and to appoint the new
Menteri Besar. Thus, the appellant’s counsel argument, that the learned HCJ
failure to make a finding whether the appellant had made out a defence under
s. 3(2) of the Act does not entitle him to be exonerated from the offence. The
non-direction does not tantamount to a serious misdirection. Therefore, the
conviction against the appellant is safe for the reasons aforesaid, the appeal
is dismissed. Conviction by the learned HCJ affirmed. My learned brother
Kamardin bin Hashim has read my draft judgment and agreed with me.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

37

Tengku Maimun Tuan Mat JCA:
[23] These two (2) appeals were filed by the appellant, Mr Karpal Singh
a/l Ram Singh against conviction and sentence handed down by the High
Court under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948.

B

The Background
[24]

C

D

In the High Court, the appellant was charged for the following offence:

Bahawa kamu pada 6 Februari 2009 jam antara 12.00 tengahari dan 12.30
petang di Tetuan Karpal Singh & Co yang beralamat No. 67, Jalan Pudu
Lama, dalam Daerah Dang Wangi, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
dalam satu sidang akhbar telah menyebut kata-kata menghasut (transkrip
ucapan dilampirkan sebagai LAMPIRAN ‘A’ kepada pertuduhan ini dan
kata-kata menghasut digariskan); dan oleh yang demikian, kamu telah
melakukan satu kesalahan di bawah seksyen 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan 1948
(Akta 15) dan boleh dihukum di bawah seksyen 4(1) Akta yang sama.
Hukuman
Kamu boleh, bagi kesalahan kali pertama, didenda tidak melebihi lima ribu
ringgit atau dipenjara selama tempoh tidak melebihi tiga tahun atau
kedua-duanya, dan bagi kesalahan yang kemudian boleh dipenjara selama
tempoh tidak melebihi lima tahun.

E

[25] The words that form the subject matter of the charge against the
appellant were uttered by the appellant at a press conference called by him
in respect of the political crisis in the State of Perak which led to the removal
of the then Menteri Besar, Datuk Seri Haji Nizar bin Jamaluddin by HRH
the Sultan of Perak.

F

[26]

For ease of reference, I reproduce below Lampiran ‘A’ which reads:

Transkrip Video Kenyataan Akhbar Oleh YB Karpal Singh Di Pejabat
Peguam Karpal Singh No. 67, Jalan Pudu Lama, 50200 Kuala Lumpur
Pada 6.2.2009 @ 12.00 Tengahari
G

I think I baca statement, yang ada depan saya sekarang ini,
The removal of Perak Menteri Besar, Datuk Seri Haji Nizar bin
Jamaluddin, by the Sultan of Perak purportedly pursuant to Article 16(6)
of the Constitution of the State of Perak which is stated here in brackets,
is clearly ultra (sic) vires the provisions of this article.

H

I

In law, the decision of the Sultan of Perak can be questioned in a court
of law. As far back as the 12th of May 1977, a strong five men bench of
the Federal Court ruled that the decision of the Yang Dipertuan Agong
to confirm three detention orders under the emergency (Public Order and
prevention on crime) Ordinance 1969 was amenable to judicial review if
it was ultra vires the provisions of the federal constitution. The federal
court unanimously ruled, although the orders of the detention had been



38

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

confirmed by the King, that decision was ultra vires Article 1(5)(1)(b) of the
Federal Constitution as that confirmation was made outside and beyond
the period of three months stipulated in that article.
With that ruling of the federal court which has stood the test of time for
32 years beyond a pale of doubt, the Sultan of Perak has contravened
Article 16(6) of the Constitutions of the State of Perak.
The Pakatan Rakyat State Government had the mantle of legitimacy it
still has. In my view the election commission had through its chairman,
Tan Sri Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof publicly ruled that there was a doubt
over the vacancy of the seats of PKR Changkat Jering assemblyman,
Mohd Osman Mohd Jailu, and PKR Behrang assemblyman Jamaludin
Mohd Razi after the letters submitted by Perak assembly speaker
V. Sivakumar in relation to their letters of resignation were conducted or
rather contradicted by denials from both these assemblymen. This
triggered the provisions of Article 33(1) which states [if any question arises
whether a member of the Legislative assembly has a been disqualified for
membership, the decision of the assembly shall be taken and shall be
final.]
Therefore for the assembly to decide on the status of these 3, of these
assemblymen and not the Sultan of Perak who determine that they
remain independent despite having submitted undated letters of
resignation to the Perak Assembly speaker and therefore with their
presence at the Istana and their pledge of allegiance to the Barisan
Nasional together with DAP Jelapang assemblywoman, Hee Yit Foon,
the Pakatan Rakyat government could no longer hold on to office.
In my view, until such time, the Assembly has invoked the provisions of
Article 33(1) both Mohd Osman Mohd Jailu and Jamaludin Mohd Razi
remained PKR assemblymen together with Jelapang assemblywoman Hee
Yit Foong, remaining with the DAP until her resignation letter was
subjected to determination by the Assembly pursuant to Article 33(1)
thereby causing the Pakatan Rakyat to have 31 members in the assembly
of 60 members. It cannot therefore be said that the Sultan of Perak acted
intra vires in fact acted ultra vires Article 16(6) when he determined that
Menteri Besar, Nizar Jamaludin had ceased to command the confidence
of the majority of the members of the legislative assembly and was
therefore required to tender resignation of the executive council over
which he presided including his own resignation.
Clearly the Sultan of Perak cannot invoke his powers under Article 16(1)
which states [His Royal Highness shall appoint an Executive Council] to
appoint a Barisan Nasional Executive Council with a new Menteri Besar
and a new government. The Government of a Menteri Besar Dato’ Haji
Nizar bin Jamaludin still had constitunional (sic) supremacy and
legitimacy. The actions of the Sultan of Perak are clearly, premature.
I call upon the Sultan to cease and desist from appointing a new Barisan
Nasional Menteri Besar and executive council later this afternoon. This
in no way should be construe as a threat to the Sultan but on the other

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

hand a firm reminder to him that he is required to act within the
parameters and confines of the sacred constitutional document that is the
constitution of the State of Perak which is the supreme law of that state.
The following words of Raja Muda of Perak, Raja Dr. Nazrin Shah,
during the pledge of loyalty at the special investiture in conjunction with
the silver jubilee celebration of Sultan Azlan Shah as the 34th Sultan of
Perak at Istana Iskandariah on 3rd February 2009 bear repetition. Quote,
“The ruler, as the head of state and country, needs to be neutral, nonpartisan, and free of having personal interest to ensure justice for the
people”.
Raja Nazrin also said that the power entrusted by Allah should be
discharged with responsibility because he (the Ruler) would be judged in
the hereafter. As such he said power must be exercised to implement good
practices adding that the Ruler’s nobility and honour, position, and
sovereignty do not come automatically.
It is my view that the Pakatan Rakyat Government headed by Nizar
Jamaludin should be allowed without any hindrance for any quarter to
invoke the provisions of Article 33(1). It is after this exercise that the
intervention of the Sultan of Perak could become if at all necessary.
If the Sultan persists in appointing a Barisan Nasional Executive Council
and Menteri Besar, later at 3 pm today, the Pakatan Rakyat will have no
alternative but to seek a judicial pronouncement in the interest of the
rakyat in Perak. The judicial proceedings will inevitably include the
purported new state government. This will, in turn, cause unnecessary
apprehension, anxiety and concern which should be averted at all costs.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

F

Well that is my statement. Are there any question?
(... inaudible ...)

G

Beyond the powers conferred on him under the Constitution of the State
of Perak. That he had no right, that he had no right to dismiss the
government rather the State Government of MB Nizar Jamaludin. The
lawful Government is still the Government, the Pakatan Rakyat
government.
(Question from reporter .... YB, can you ... (unclear) ...)

H

I

In fact, I’ve stated very clearly that we will sue the Sultan together with
the new State Government as defendants if they persist. If they don’t, this
afternoon, if what I said is right, and the Sultan is prepared to accept that,
then things are perfectly in order. The old government would still be in
power.
In fact, over Article 83 or rather 63 of the Constitution of the State of
Perak. We give copies of it. I’ll read what is that. What the Sultan of Perak
can do is this under Article 64 and that states, His Royal Highness may
refer to the Federal Court for its decision or rather its opinion any

39



40

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

question as to the effect of any provisions of this constitution which has
a reason or appears to his Royal Highness likely to arise and the Federal
Court shall pronounce in open court to his opinion on any question so
referred to it. In other words, under Article 64 the Sultan can now refer
this question and question would be whether these 3 assemblymen are
still members of the assembly as
Because if that is so, and I say that is so until such time as the State of
Assembly decides under Article 33(1) as to whether they are still qualified
to sit in the assembly they remain members of the Pakatan Rakyat.
Pakatan Rakyat assembly, assemblymen.
(Question from reporter ... YB it’s look like the Barisan Nasional new ...
(unclear) ... tomorrow ...)
Well tomorrow is a holiday, the suit will be filed on Tuesday because
Monday is also a holiday. In fact I call upon the Sultan to carefully
consider what he has in fact done. The Sultan has no right to call the
32 members, or assemblymen rather, to the Istana and questioned them
one by one as to where their allegiance lay, because that is not within the
confines of a what the Sultan could do. That is the a job of the assembly
to decide under Article 33(1). The Sultan cannot usurp the powers of the
State Assembly.
In fact, I have cited two cases there, in fact the first case if you all can
have a look at it. This is the decision of the 5 member bench of the
Federal Court way back in a 1977 May 12. If you look at it, this is what
was decided by the Court. Now in this case what has happened was
3 detention orders were confirmed by the Yang DiPertuan Agong. But
that confirmation was outside the 3 month period provided for under
Article 151(B) of the Federal Constitution, and this is what the Federal
Court a held, its at page 5. It’s marked paragraph 3. Although the note,
although the orders of detention in these cases had been confirmed by
the King, that decision was ultra vires and could be corrected by the court.
So we are saying here what the Sultan Perak has done is ultra vires the
Constitution of the State of Perak and the Court has jurisdiction to a set
that right. It’s as simple as that. A very simple constitutional issue.
(Question from reporter ... Sorry YB, could you explain ultra vires in
layman terms?
Ultra vires a means a is acting beyond, you don’t have the power to act
beyond what the, the, the, a you know a Constitution provides. Which
is only the assembly can decide on whether assemblymen in view of these
letters. Even ... Election Commission said there’s a doubt as to whether
the letters were valid. And Article 33 very a clearly states if any question
arises with regard to whether an assemblyman’s qualified or not, the
decision shall be taken by the assembly. In fact, the a, the a present State
Government, the Government which has in fact been dismissed by the
Sultan, can convene a meeting even today and I tender Article 33(1) and
determine whether those letters are valid and even assuming the assembly
decides that these 3 are in fact no more a lawfully elected assemblymen

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

A

then there’s a deadlock. It would mean 28:28. 28 for the Barisan and
28 for the Pakatan Rakyat which means there’s a deadlock, which means
then the Sultan of Perak should order a snap election in the State of
Perak. He should dissolve the assembly, but he cannot act in the manner
he has done.

B

(Question from reporter ... Do you think Malaysia is facing a perhaps
constitutional crisis?

C

Well, its not Malaysia, the State of Perak is. But this could extend to
other states, and we wouldn’t want that kind of position. As I said, there’s
a way out, way out. The Sultan can act under Article 64, refer this
question to the Federal Court vis-a-vis the facts and circumstances of this
case. Whether he could act under Article 16(6) to dismiss the government
of a Nizar Jamaludin. As I keep saying our view is that the Government
of Nizar Jamaludin, the Pakatan State Government still is the valid and
lawful one.

D

E

F

G

I’ve tried to make it as clear as I can in the statement I have made. I’m
backing up whatever I’m saying by cases, a by the Federal Court and the
second case. If I could t..t..t.. take it to you the case of Fan Yew Teng, this
was way back in 1975.. if I remember correctly, ya, March 12, 1975.. I did
this case, in fact. What had happened was the same a constitutional
provision came into a, a question, at page 15. Article 53 of the a Federal
Constitution states if any question arises whether member of the House
in Parliament has become disqualified the decision of the House shall be
taken and shall be final. Exactly the same as Article 33(1) and the court
held that a there Fan Yew Teng did not stand disqualified this by way
of conviction. In fact a by-election was called after he was convicted by
the High Court. He got an injunction to stop the by-election. The court
granted it because it was for the Parliament to decide whether it’s a result
of the conviction he had become disqualified.
(Question from reporter ... YB, so you said that, since now the three have
a submitted their resignation to the assembly, so the assembly should
have the final say to tell them as they have a mean they are not a valid
member of the assembly, so by-election should be held or snap ... (unclear)
...
Oh .. oh... a snap election. The Sultan has got no right to invervene. He
can’t, under these circumstances I must say. He has certain rights but
those rights do not arise under the a present state of affairs in the state
of Perak.

H

I

(Question from reporter ... Do you think the resignation letter is still valid
because the date was fill ... (unclear) ...
Does not matter, let the assembly decide, let the assembly decide. The
Sultan cannot decide. He has no power. We are going by the constitution.
Sultan is bound by the constitution of the state of Perak. He’s not
immune from being taken to the court. But I’ll make it very clear. I got

41



42

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

That, that in fact, it’s unlawful,. That, that whoever has stopped him from
excluding his duties is committing an offense under the penal code –
obstruction of a public servant in the execution of his duty. I hope
whoever is doing it realises what is being done. In fact, a letter has been
sent out by the State Secretary to the Menteri Besar and all the actual
members of the Pakatan Rakyat Government that they are required to go
to the office and collect their personal effects and no other documents.
(Cough) You can’t shut out a Menteri Besar who has been lawfully
elected from entering his own office. It’s an abuse of power on the part
of whoever did it. And I hope he’s prepared for the consequences, and
we must make it very clear that the Pakatan Rakyat is very serious about
what is going on in the state of Perak. We don’t want it to spread
elsewhere.

A

B

C

(Question from reporter ... What happened will happened to them also ...
(unclear...)
Well I’m they are not worried. I don’t think anything will happened
elsewhere, but the, the fact remains. We don’t want a precedent like this.
You can’t grab power. You must get the power from the people in a
constitutional manner. And I’m surprised that the Deputy Prime Minister
is in fact a heading the charge in Perak including the Prime Minister
himself. What is being done is very high-ended. Unbecoming of a Prime
Minister and his Deputy. They got no business in fact to be even there.
It’s better for the state assemblymen in UMNO that they should take it
up with the Sultan. Why, why should the a Sultan even give a audience
to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. They had no business
to be there.

D

E

Ada apa-apa soalan lain?
(Question from reporter ... is Pakatan going to a launch a huge rally to
show the protest ... (unclear) ...)
Oh. That’s a separate matter. My task is a you know to sort of take it
from a legal side. They want the law to prevail and we want the
constitutional provision to prevail. It’s all wrong to take power on the
strengths of crossovers, crossovers a people who are guilty of treachery
to the rakyat. In fact, crossing over should be a made a criminal offence.
It’s cheating the public. It’s a very very serious matter to a cheat out of
having been elected on a, on a PKR ticket to crossover or for that matter
on DAP ticket to crossover. You got no business to do that. You are not
elected on the Barisan Nasional ticket. You go back to the people.
(Question from reporter ... YB, does your statement applies to both ruling
an opposition party ... (unclear) ...)
Yes, my statement applies to both. In fact I say Anwar Ibrahim was wrong
in having started a campaign to a take power on the strengths of
crossovers. What he did was not right. What has to be said will be said.
You can’t take power, or grab power on the strengths of crossovers.

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

Likewise, Najib is wrong, so why not, why not amend the Federal
Constitution. I’ve been saying that all the time. At the moment the federal
court has decided and this was a case coming from Kelantan. Kelantan
had an anti-hopping law enacted in 1991, the Federal Court declared that
the anti-hopping law was unconstitutional on the ground that it
contravened.
Article 10 of the Federal Constitution which says you have a right to form
associations. The right to associated (sic) include the right to disassociate,
that’s what the Federal Court said.
The Federal Court has made a decision. The only way to get around the
decision is to amend the Federal Constitution ... to outlaw party hopping.
I think the people, the country are disgusted with party hopping. And
every effort should be made by the elected residents of the people. To
amend not only the Federal Constitution, but all states constitution to
include a anti-hopping law. In fact, anti-hopping law should be made a
criminal offence. Whoever does that should be put in prison. Barisan
Nasional Government does not have a two-third (sic) majority in
Parliament at the moment to amend the Federal Constitution. I say now
that the DAP will prepare, is prepared rather to give them not 9, they need
9 seats to make up two-third majority. We’ll give them 28. I’ll persuade
Anwar Ibrahim and PAS to also support that amendment. At the moment
PAS and PKR support party hopping, which is wrong. The DAP does not.
Our stand has always been from the time the DAP was a in fact a set up
way back in 1966 and it was formed until now our stand is very clear. You
cannot cheat the Rakyat. Party hopping is something abhorent,
unacceptable, and indefensible.
Any other question?

F

G

H

I

Dan dari segi Perlembagaan negeri Perak, adalah terus terang apa yang
ada dimengisytiharkan oleh Sultan Perak iaitu a Kerajaan Negeri Pakatan
Rakyat tidak sah tentang dengan peruntukan Perkara 16(6) Perlembagaan
a Perak. Apa yang dibuat tidak a boleh dimempertahankan. Adakah tiga
ahli Dewan Undangan Negeri Perak apabila menandatangan satu surat
letak jawatan, a letak jawatan, adakah itu sah, adalah untuk a Dewan
Undangan Negeri Perak membuat keputusan. Tidak ada pihak lain yang
ada kuasa untuk a buat demikian, termasuk Sultan Perak.
Apa yang saya menyatakan tadi ada satu a langkah yang lain yang boleh
digunakan iaitu rombakan Perkara 64 Perlembagaan Negeri Perak iaitu
Sultan Perak ada kuasa untuk a rujuk satu soalan, soalan mengenai
peruntukan dalam a Perlembagaan Negeri Perak dari segi apa yang ada
keadaan di negeri itu untuk menentukan sapa ada kuasa. Kuasa dalam
tangan Dewan Undangan Negeri untuk mengisytiharkan adakah tiga
DUN a ADUN ini, ADUN yang tidak letak jawatan atau sudah letak
jawatan. Bukan Sultan Perak untuk memanggil 32 ADUN ke Istana dan
menyoal dia.

43



44

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

Adakah dia masih ahli Dewan Undangan Negeri bagi a Keadilan atau
DAP. Itu bukan kuasa Sultan Perak, itu kuasa negeri, Kerajaan Negeri
yang sah. Kerajaan Negeri yang akan di a mengisytiharkan a pada
3 petang ini, tidak sah. Jika itu dibuat, kami akan rujuk perkara ini ke
Mahkamah Tinggi di Ipoh pada hari Selasa depan satu kes akan difailkan.
Dalam Kes itu, Sultan Perak akan jadi penentang yang a atau a
responden, defendan akan dinamakan sebagai defendan yang pertama
dan Kerajaan Negeri baru yang akan di a mengisytiharkan pada pukul
3 setengah petang ini, sebagai defendan yang kedua. Dan Plaintif adalah
Datuk Seri a Nizar Jamaludin. Dia akan memfailkan kes itu sebagai
Menteri Besar yang sah untuk dapat satu a pengisytiharan daripada
mahkamah untuk a memputuskan dia adalah Menteri Besar yang sah dan
bukan a Menteri Besar dan exco yang akan di um ... bersumpah pada
3 setengah petang ini. Itu adalah dengan ringkas apa yang saya
menyatakan dalam bahasa Inggeris tadi. Adakah apa-apa soalan?

A

B

C

(Question from reporter... You sebagai lawyer on behalf ... (unclear)...)
Yes...yes, yes, saya lawyer bagi... Bukan saya sahaja, saya dengan Gobind
Singh Deo, Ram Karpal Singh, Sanggit Kaur, Deo dan peguam-peguam
lain dalam parti bukan DAP sahaja, tetapi Keadilan dan PAS

D

(Question from reporter... Kira-kira jumlah berapa lawyer yang akan filein next week?
a Itu tidak ditentukan, menentukan, di saat ini.

E

(Question from reporter ...YB, sekarang Sultan Perak desak letak jawatan
... Datuk Seri ...(unclear)...)
Tidak ada kuasa apa yang saya menyatakan tadi. Ini tentang, tentang, dan
a ...
(reporter: (cont) ... keluar daripada Perak State ...)

F

Tidak boleh. Sultan tidak ada kuasa untuk a apa ni buang negeri. Saya
ingat sesuatu warganegara dalam a Malaysia. Tidak ada, tidak ada kuasa
untuk buat demikian.
One way, or another by court of law a by, by the State Assembly, and after
that by the Court of Law. So what the Sultan is doing is premature, as
I said, because, the Pakatan State Government is still in the majority.

G

AFZAN SAKINA SULAIMAN, AISHAH AHMAD AZAM

[27]

The relevant provisions of the Sedition Act 1948 read:

3. Seditious tendency.

H

(1) A “seditious tendency” is a tendency:
(a) to bring into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against
any Ruler or against any Government;
I



[2016] 8 CLJ

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

A

(b) to excite the subjects of
territory governed by any
the territory of the Ruler
alteration, otherwise than
law established;

any Ruler or the inhabitants of any
Government to attempt to procure in
or governed by the Government, the
by lawful means, of any matter as by

B

(c) to bring into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against
the administration of justice in Malaysia or in any State;
(d) to raise discontent or disaffection amongst the subjects of the
Yang di-Pertuan Agong or of the Ruler of any State or amongst
the inhabitants of Malaysia or of any State;

C

D

(e) to promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different
races or classes of the population of Malaysia; or
(f) to question any matter, right, status, position, privilege,
sovereignty or prerogative established or protected by the
provisions of Part III of the Federal Constitution or Article 152,
153 or 181 of the Federal Constitution.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) an act, speech, words,
publication or other thing shall not be deemed to be seditious by
reason only that it has a tendency:

E

F

(a) to show that any Ruler has been misled or mistaken in any of
his measures;
(b) to point out errors or defects in any Government or constitution
as by law established (except in respect of any matter, right,
status, position, privilege, sovereignty or prerogative referred to
in subsection (1)(f) otherwise than in relation to the
implementation of any provision relating thereto) or in
legislation or in the administration of justice with a view to the
remedying of the errors or defects;
(c) except in respect of any matter, right, status, position, privilege,
sovereignty or prerogative referred to in subsection (1)(f):

G

H

I

(i) to persuade the subjects of any Ruler or the inhabitants of
any territory governed by any Government to attempt to
procure by lawful means the alteration of any matter in the
territory of such Government as by law established; or
(ii) to point out, with a view to their removal, any matters
producing or having a tendency to produce feelings of ill will
and enmity between different races or classes of the
population of the Federation, if the act, speech, words,
publication or other thing has not otherwise in fact a
seditious tendency.
(3) For the purpose of proving the commission of any offence against
this Act the intention of the person charged at the time he did or
attempted to do or made any preparation to do or conspired with

45



46

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

any person to do any act or uttered any seditious words or printed,
published, sold, offered for sale, distributed, reproduced or imported
any publication or did any other thing shall be deemed to be
irrelevant if in fact the act had, or would, if done, have had, or the
words, publication or thing had a seditious tendency.
4. Offences

A

B

(1) Any person who –
(a) does or attempts to do, or makes any preparation to do, or
conspires with any person to do, any act which has or which
would, if done, have a seditious tendency;
(b) utters any seditious words;

C

(b) prints, publishes, sells, offers for sale, distributes or reproduces
any seditious publication; or
(d) imports any seditious publication,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable for a first
offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three years or to both, and, for a subsequent
offence, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years; and any
seditious publication found in the possession of the person or used in
evidence at his trial shall be forfeited and may be destroyed or otherwise
disposed of as the court directs.

D

E

The Prosecution’s Case
[28] I do not propose to set out the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
Suffice to state that at the end of the prosecution’s case, having heard the
witnesses, the High Court ruled that the prosecution had failed to make out
a prima facie case against the appellant. The appellant was thus acquitted and
discharged without defence being called.
[29] Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, the prosecution appealed
to this court. The appeal was allowed and the appellant was ordered to enter
his defence before the same High Court Judge. This court had given its
grounds of judgment as to why it found that a prima facie case had been proved
by the prosecution (see PP lwn. Karpal Singh Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580;
[2012] 4 MLJ 443).
[30] In essence, having gone through and analysed each and every
paragraph of the transcript of the press statement Lampiran A, this court
found that not once did the appellant utter the words that clearly carried the
meaning that HRH the Sultan of Perak did not respect or did not comply with
the law but that the appellant continuously uttered such words and had given
a stern reminder to HRH to cease his act of appointing the Menteri Besar and
the new State Assembly. This court concluded that:

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

47

[101] ... Setelah menimbangkan dengan teliti perkataan-perkataan
responden seperti dalam P3 ayat demi ayat dan menimbangkan perkataanperkataan tersebut secara keseluruhannya serta konteks dalam mana
perkataan-perkataan tersebut disebut, dan setelah memberi latitude
sebanyak yang wajar kepada responden untuk memberikan komen politik
dan pandangan undang-undang sebagai ahli Parlimen dan peguam kanan
yang terkemuka, tiada keraguan difikiran kami bahawa berdasarkan
kepada undang-undang yang berkuatkuasa kini dan keterangan yang
dikemukakan di Mahkamah di peringkat ini, responden telah melepasi
garis yang memisahkan pernyataan perkataan-perkataan yang dibenarkan
oleh undang-undang dengan pernyataan perkataan-perkataan menghasut.
Tiada keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden itu
bukan perkataan-perkataan yang mempunyai kecenderungan untuk
menunjukkan bahawa DYMM Sultan Perak telah terkeliru atau tersilap.
Oleh itu di peringkat ini pembelaan di bawah s. 3(2)(a) Akta 15 adalah
tidak terpakai. Kami berpuas hati bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden
mempunyai kecenderungan:
(a) bagi mendatangkan kebencian dan penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia terhadap DYMM Sultan Perak seperti
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(a) Akta 15; dan
(b) bagi menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau tidak setia di
kalangan rakyat DYMM Sultan Perak seperti diperuntukkan di
bawah s. 3(1)(d) Akta 15.
[102] Selanjutnya, tiada keraguan di fikiran kami bahawa perkataanperkataan responden itu mempunyai kecenderungan yang diperuntukkan
di bawah s. 3(1)(f) Akta 15, iaitu kecenderungan bagi mempersoalkan
kuasa prerogatif DYMM Sultan Perak yang ditetapkan atau dilindungi di
bawah perkara 181(1) Perlembagaan Persekutuan.

The Defence

G

H

I

[31] The defence can be categorised into two broad aspects. Firstly, that
what was stated in the press statement and Lampiran A did not and cannot
come within the meaning of the s. 3(1)(f) of the Sedition Act as the appellant
was not questioning the prerogative of HRH the Sultan but the manner the
prerogative was exercised. The second aspect of the defence was that the
charge against the appellant was unconstitutional as there was selective
prosecution by the Attorney General.
[32] As regards the first aspect of the defence, the evidence of the appellant
given under oath may be summarised as follows. The press conference was
called to explain to the public the political crisis in the State of Perak. The
appellant was giving his legal opinion backed with authorities. The appellant
acknowledged that HRH the Sultan of Perak has the powers under the
Constitution of the State of Perak to dissolve the State Assembly and to
appoint the Menteri Besar but it was the appellant’s view that the exercise
of the powers by HRH the Sultan at that point of time was premature.



48

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

[33] The appellant stated that he was acting in his capacity as a Member
of Parliament and that he had given a legal opinion for the benefit of the
public. The appellant emphasised that he may be wrong in his opinion but
that his view was premised on art. 33 of the Constitution of the State of Perak
where the appellant stated that it was for the State Assembly to first decide
on the validity or otherwise of the resignation of the three assemblymen
before HRH the Sultan of Perak could decide on the removal and
replacement of Dato’ Seri Mohamed Nizar as the Menteri Besar. On the
words ‘firm reminder’ given to HRH the Sultan, the appellant denied that he
was giving a warning to, or that he was threatening HRH the Sultan of Perak.

A

[34] On the words uttered that “... we will sue the Sultan together with the
new State Government as defendants if they persist”, the appellant stated that
the basis for him saying so was the establishment of the special court which
had enabled the Rulers to be sued in that court.

C

[35] As for the second aspect of the defence, the appellant testified on the
fact that the former Prime Minister, Tun Mahathir Mohamed had made
seditious statements during the 1993 constitutional crisis but Tun Mahathir
was not prosecuted. Evidence was also led on the police reports lodged
against certain individuals making seditious statements, which were not
investigated by the authorities.
The Findings Of The High Court At The End Of The Defence Case
[36] On the first aspect of the defence, the High Court found that the cases
of Re Tan Boon Liat @ Allen & Anor Et Al; Tan Boon Liat v. Menteri Hal Ehwal
Dalam Negeri & Ors And Chuah Han Mow v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri
& Ors And Subramaniam v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri & Ors [1977] 1
LNS 110; [1977] 2 MLJ 108 and Teh Cheng Poh v. PP [1978] 1 LNS 202;
[1979] 1 MLJ 50 which were relied upon by the appellant to form his views
that HRH the Sultan of Perak may be sued was distinguishable on the facts.
The High Court agreed with the prosecution that the two cases had nothing
to do with the situation in the State of Perak and that the cases do not support
the appellant’s views.
[37] On the issue of selective prosecution, quoting art. 145(3) of the
Federal Constitution and various case laws which I find no necessity to
repeat, the High Court found no reason and power to rule that the appellant
ought not to have been charged on the ground that there had been selective
and mala fide prosecution against the appellant by the Attorney General.

B

D

E

F

G

H

[38] Having dealt with the two aspects of the defence, the High Court
concluded as follows (pp. 112-113 of appeal record vol. 7):
[36] Mahkamah setelah meneliti penghakiman Mahkamah Rayuan
Malaysia secara keseluruhannya dan pembuktian di dalam kes pihak
pendakwaan dan meneliti pembelaan tertuduh memutuskan tertuduh
gagal menimbulkan sebarang keraguan munasabah ke atas kes pihak

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

49

pendakwaan. Bahawa pihak pendakwaan tanpa sebarang keraguan yang
munasabah telah berjaya membuktikan bahawa Kenyataan Akhbar oleh
tertuduh di P3 dan Lampiran A mempunyai kecenderungan menghasut
bagi mendatangkan kebencian atau penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia terhadap DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(a) dan kecenderungan menghasut bagi
menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau tidak setia di kalangan rakyat
DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(d) dan
kecenderungan menghasut yang diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(f), iaitu
kecenderungan bagi mempersoalkan kuasa prerogatif DYMM Sultan
Perak yang ditetapkan atau dilindungi di bawah Perkara 181(1)
Perlembagaan Persekutuan. Oleh itu pembelaan di bawah s. 3(2)(a) dan
pembelaan yang dinyatakan di atas tadi tidak terpakai dan gagal
menimbulkan sebarang keraguan munasabah dan Mahkamah ini berpuas
hati bahawa perkataaa-perkataan responden (sic) mempunyai
kecenderungan menghasut di bawah sub-para (a), (d) dan (f).

[39] The appellant was thus convicted and having heard the parties on
sentence, the High Court imposed a fine of RM4,000 in default four months
imprisonment, hence the appeal.
The Appeal

E

[40] Following the demise of the appellant on 17 April 2014, Madam
Gurmit Kaur a/p Sohan Singh had been substituted as the appellant vide an
order of this court dated 10 November 2014.
[41] The grounds of appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the
appellant were as follows:

F

G

(i) that the Sedition Act is unconstitutional as it is contrary to art. 10(2) and
is incapable of being modified under art. 162(6) of the Federal
Constitution;
(ii) that the Sedition Act is unconstitutional as it did not meet the
reasonableness and proportionality tests as it prohibits freedom of
expression and speech upon those matters set out in s. 4 read with s. 3
of the Sedition Act;
(iii) that the charge against the appellant was defective;

H

(iv) that the High Court Judge failed to make a finding whether or not the
appellant had made out a defence under s. 3(2)(a) of the Sedition Act;
and
(v) that the appellant was deprived of a fair trial in which his defence was
not evaluated independently.

I



50

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

The Constitutionality Of The Sedition Act 1948

A

[42] Learned counsel had submitted that the conviction of the appellant
under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act was unconstitutional and could not be
sustained for the reason that the Sedition Act which is a pre-merdeka law and
is an existing law could not be modified under cl. 6 of art. 162 of the Federal
Constitution which reads:

B

(6) Any court or tribunal applying the provision of any existing law which
has not been modified on or after Merdeka Day under this Article or
otherwise may apply it with such modifications as may be necessary to
bring it into accord with the provisions of this Constitution.

[43] It was the submission of learned counsel that the Sedition Act is not
capable of modification in a manner which would bring it into accord with
the Federal Constitution. This submission was premised on cl. (2)(a) of
art. 10 of the Federal Constitution which provides for the imposition of
restrictions to the right to speech and expression guaranteed in cl. (1)(a) of
art. 10.
[44]

C

D

Clause (2)(a) reads:

(2) Parliament may by law impose:
(a) on the rights conferred by paragraph (a) of Clause (1), such
restrictions as it deems necessary or expedient in the interest of the
security of the Federation or any part thereof, friendly relations with
other countries, public order or morality and restrictions designed to
protect the privileges of Parliament or of any Legislative Assembly
or to provide against contempt of court, defamation, or incitement
to any offence;

[45] In light of the above provision, learned counsel argued that only
Parliament (which consist of Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the Dewan Negara and
the Dewan Rakyat) has the power to impose restrictions on freedom of
speech and expression and that too only for the matters within the areas
contemplated under cl. (2)(a) therein.
[46] Thus it is for the Dewan Rakyat and not for the court to decide as to
what restrictions are necessary and since the Sedition Act was not debated
nor considered by the Dewan Rakyat or Dewan Negara, no amount of
modification by a court of law can bring it into accord with what is required
by art. 10(2). Citing Surinder Singh Kanda v. The Government of Federation of
Malaya [1960] 1 LNS 132; [1962] 28 MLJ 169; Assa Singh v. Menteri Besar,
Johore [1968] 1 LNS 9; [1969] 2 MLJ 30 and Tan Eng Hong v. AttorneyGeneral [2012] 4 SLR 476, learned counsel contended that where an existing
law cannot be modified so as to bring it into accord with the provisions
of the Federal Constitution, that law cannot be applied by any court under
art. 162.

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

51

[47] Particular emphasis was placed by learned counsel on the case of
Tan Eng Hong (supra), where the Court of Appeal of Singapore had to
determine an application brought by an accused person for a declaration that
s. 377A of the Penal Code of the Republic of Singapore was inconsistent with
arts. 9, 12 and 14 of the Constitution of Singapore and was therefore void
by virtue of art. 4 of the said Constitution.

C

[48] Although the Singapore Court of Appeal in Tan Eng Hong (supra), did
not deal with the substantive issue of the constitutionality of s. 377A of the
Penal Code of Singapore but only dealt with the preliminary issue of whether
the application was correctly struck out under O. 18 r. 19 of the Rules, the
Singapore Court of Appeal considered the line of Malaysian cases, namely
Jamaluddin Mohd Radzi & Ors v. Sivakumar Varatharaju Naidu; Suruhanjaya
Pilihan Raya (Intervener) [2009] 4 CLJ 347; [2009] 4 MLJ 593; Surinder Singh
(supra) and Assa Singh (supra) which have interpreted arts. 4 and 162 of the
Federal Constitution.

D

[49]

E

F

G

H

I

In Tan Eng Hong (supra), V K Rajah JA said:

55 In our view, apart from Jamaluddin, the Malaysian cases cannot be
taken as support for the AG’s contention that existing laws can never be
voided under Art. 4. As we explained in the preceding paragraph, it
appears that Jamaluddin is itself out of kilter with the approach adopted
in earlier cases such as Surinder Singh and Assa Singh ... We align ourselves
with the latter two cases, and find that while those two cases hold that
modification of unconstitutional existing laws must be carried out, this is
only in so far as modification is possible. Surinder Singh and Assa Singh leave
open the position which the courts should take where modification is
impossible, viz, whether the courts can then void the unconstitutional
existing law under Art. 4. It is this question that we must now turn to,
looking at the Constitution of Singapore. Before we do so, we note that
our views correspond with those of the authors of the Report of the
Federation of Malaya Constitutional Commission (11 February 1957)
(Chairman: Lord Reid) (“the Reid Report”) and also with those of
leading constitutional experts who have studied the Constitution of
Malaysia. The Reid Report at para 161 recommended the inclusion of
fundamental rights in the Constitution of Malaysia as only a
Constitution, as the supreme law, was able to guarantee fundamental
rights:
The guarantee afforded by the Constitution [of Malaysia] is the
supremacy of the law and the power and duty of the Courts to
enforce these rights and to annul any attempt to subvert any of
them whether by legislative or administrative action or otherwise
(emphasis added)
56 The same point was noted by Datuk Ahmad Ibrahim (see “Interpreting
the Constitution: Some General Principles” in The Constitution of Malaysia,
Further Perspectives and Developments: Essays in honour of Tun Mohamed Suffian



52

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

(F A Trindade & H P Lee eds) (Oxford University Press, 1986) at p 19),
who commented that the Reid Report took the view that the
fundamental rights must be guaranteed by the Constitution of Malaysia
as the guarantee afforded by that Constitution was the supremacy of the
law. In the commentary on Art 162 of the Constitution of Malaysia in
Dato K C Vohrah, Philip T N Koh & Peter S W Ling, Sheridan & Groves:
The Constitution of Malaysia (Malayan Law Journal, 5th Ed, 2004), Surinder
Singh is cited (at p 708) for the proposition that “inconsistent existing laws
must give way to the Constitution [of Malaysia] even where an Article
or the Constitution [of Malaysia] was expressed to be ‘subject to existing
laws’”. R H Hickling, Malaysian Public Law (Pelanduk Publications, 1997)
at p 50 also refers to Surinder Singh as upholding the supremacy of the
Constitution of Malaysia. The strongest statement of support for our view
comes from Harry E Groves, The Constitution of Malaysia (Malaysia
Publications, 1964) who wrote that the Constitution of Malaysia
continued existing laws “provided such laws were not inconsistent with
[that] Constitution” (at p 36), and that existing laws which were
inconsistent with the Constitution of Malaysia and which “[had] not been
modified in one of the available ways must be held void (emphasis added)
(at p 37, citing Surinder Singh).

[50] Learned counsel highlighted that although the issue of modification of
the Sedition Act has been decided by the Federal Court in PP v. Azmi Sharom
[2015] 8 CLJ 921, the Federal Court did not consider the issue in the context
of Tan Eng Hong (supra).
[51] Learned counsel had also argued on the constitutionality of the
Sedition Act from the angle of proportionality test. The crux of the
submission was that s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act totally prohibits any
discussion of the matters deemed to have a “seditious tendency” as set out
in s. 3(1) of the Act. This, contended learned counsel, is in violation of
art. 10(2) since under art. 10(2), Parliament may by law impose restrictions
(and not a prohibition) in respect of freedom of speech and expression.
[52] The Federal Court in Azmi Sharom (supra) had referred to and followed
Sivarasa Rasiah v. Badan Peguam Malaysia & Anor [2010] 3 CLJ 507 on
proportionality test. Sivarasa Rasiah (supra) in turn had considered the
statement of Gubbay CJ in the case of Nyambirai v. National Social Security
Authority [1996] 1 LRC 64, the leading authority on the matter. This is what
the Federal Court ruled in Azmi Sharom (supra):
[43] In this regard, we agree with the learned judge in Sivarasa Rasiah, that
the restriction that may be imposed by the Legislature under art. 10(2) is
not without limit. This means to say that the law promulgated under
art. 10(2) must pass the proportionality test in order to be valid. This, in
our view is in line with the test laid down in Pung Chen Choon discussed
earlier. Having said that, we will now consider whether s. 4(1) of the Act
would pass the proportionality test. One thing is clear, this section is
directed to any act, word or publication having a “seditious tendency” as

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

53

defined in s. 3(1) paras (a) to (f) of the Act. This in our view is consistent
with art. 10(2)(a) and art. 10(4) of the Constitution, as it cannot be said
that the restrictions imposed by s. 4(1) are too remote or not sufficiently
connected to the subjects/objects enumerated in art. 10(2)(a).
Furthermore, this is not a total prohibition as it is subject to a number of
exceptions as provided in s. 3(2) of the Act. As legislated, it is not
seditious to show that any Ruler has been misled or mistaken in any of
his measures, or to point out errors or defects in any Government or
Constitution as by law established. Upon close analysis, we agree with the
plaintiff’s submission that the restrictions imposed in s. 4(1) fall squarely
within the ambit or parameter of art. 10(2)(a) of the Constitution.

[53] Whilst learned counsel submitted that the Federal Court was correct
in respect of the proportionality test, it was contended that the Federal Court
overlooked s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act when it said that s. 4(1) is not a total
prohibition as it is subject to a number of exceptions as provided in s. 3(2)
of the Act. Learned counsel’s argument was that the exceptions in s. 3(2)
have been rendered nugatory by s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act.
[54] In this regard learned counsel cited Melan bin Abdullah & Anor v. PP
[1971] 1 LNS 77; [1971] 2 MLJ 280 where Ong CJ (Malaya) said:

E

F

G

H

I

Sub-section (2) of section 3, in my view, is now nugatory to all intents
and purposes. It starts to qualify or limit the broad application of
sub-section (1) by saying that an act or publication “shall not be deemed
to be seditious by reason only that it has a tendency to be critical of
authority, but ends contrariwise with the qualification: “if the act, speech,
words, publication or other thing has not otherwise in fact a seditious
tendency. In short, it simply lays down that the test to be applied is
whether or not the act impugned has in fact a seditious tendency.
Sub-section (3) of section 3 in the same strain goes on to emphasise that
intention is irrelevant if in fact the act had a seditious tendency.
The 1970 amendment to sub-section (2) piled exception upon exception,
while expressly saving from condemnation such criticisms as may be made
“in relation to implementation” of the relevant articles in the
Constitution. But any effect it may intended to have on sub-section (1)
is rendered wholly nugatory by paragraph (c) of subsection (2), since the
new paragraph (f) is all-powerful. How the provisions of sub-section (2)
can possibly affect the simple test laid down is beyond my comprehension.
The law, therefore, as I construe it, is that the doing or making of any
act or publication having in fact a seditious tendency renders the person
responsible liable to prosecution under section 4(1)(c) of the Sedition Act.
The most significant effect of the 1970 amendment lies in paragraph (f)
of sub-section (1), whereby the definition of a “seditious tendency”
includes questioning any of the provisions and articles in the Federal
Constitution therein specified. The ban on such questions is made
absolute by paragraph (c) of sub-section (2).



54

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

[55] It was further the submission of learned counsel that s. 3(3) of the
Sedition Act prohibits totally any discussion of the matters deemed to have
a “seditious tendency” as set out in s. 3(1). This, argued learned counsel, is
in violation of art. 10(2) of the Federal Constitution which states that
Parliament may by law impose restrictions, not prohibition.

A

Decision

B

[56] The constitutional issue canvassed by learned counsel is not for this
court to decide. It is within the domain of the Federal Court and the issues
had in fact been settled by the Federal Court. In the case of Azmi Sharom
(supra), the Federal Court considered the following two questions referred by
the High Court, by way of a special case:

C

(i) whether s. 4(1) of the Sedition Act contravened art. 10(2) of the Federal
Constitution and therefore void under art. 4(1); and
(ii) whether the Sedition Act is valid and enforceable under the Federal
Constitution.

D

[57] The Federal Court answered the first question in the negative and the
second question in the positive. In delivering the judgment of the Federal
Court, Arifin Zakaria CJ said:
[24] To say that the Act does not come within the ambit of art. 10(2) of
the Constitution as it was not made by Parliament would give it a highly
restrictive and rigid interpretation to the phrase “Parliament may by law”
as appearing in the said article. We are of the view that the framers of
the Constitution in drafting art. 162 would have in their contemplation
the provision of art. 10(2), and had they indeed intended that the phrase
“the existing laws” in art. 162 is not to include the Act they could have
done so in no uncertain terms.

E

F

[25] On the contrary, we are of the view that the intention of the framers
of the Constitution is to provide for the continuance of all existing laws
including the Act, subject to any modifications as may be made so as to
bring it into accord with the Constitution. The existing law is only
rendered void or invalid if it could not be brought into accord with the
Constitution. This is to be contrasted with the treatment of post Merdeka
Day legislation which by virtue of art. 4(1) is rendered null and void to
the extent of its inconsistency with the Constitution.

G

[58] The Federal Court went on to consider the Report of the Working
Committee of Constitutional Proposals in 1946 and concluded that:

H

[27] ... it is thus the intention of the framers of the Constitution to ensure
that the existing law will continue to be valid and enforceable upon the
coming into operation of the Constitution on Merdeka Day. It follows
therefore that the Act being the “existing law” at the material date should
continue to be valid and enforceable post Merdeka Day.

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

55

[59] As mentioned in para. [28] above, learned counsel submitted that the
Federal Court in Azmi Sharom (supra) did not look at the issue of modification
in the context of Singapore case of Tan Eng Hong (supra).
[60] With respect, I am of the view that regardless of how the Federal
Court looked at it, the issue of modification of the Sedition Act as an existing
law has been decided by the Federal Court. It is not for this court to “revisit”
the issue on the premise that the Federal Court had failed to consider the
issue in the context of Tan Eng Hong (supra).
[61] The issue on proportionality or whether s. 3(3) of the Sedition Act
imposes a total prohibition or proportionate restriction had similarly been
decided in Azmi Sharom (supra). The learned CJ had clearly stated that as
s. 3(2) provides for exceptions, s. 4(1) of the Sedition Act is not a total
prohibition. Learned DPP had also submitted that there is a statutory defence
as provided under s. 3(2) of the Sedition Act and that if an accused person
succeeded in showing that he falls under para. (a), (b) or (c) of s. 3(2), then
he will succeed in his defence notwithstanding that the prosecution has
proved s. 3(3).
[62] I therefore decline to make any finding on the first two issues raised
by the appellant.

E

F

The Charge
[63] It was submitted by learned counsel in the alternative that the charge
against the appellant was defective in that it did not state with precision
which limb of s. 3 of the Sedition Act did the prosecution rely on to make
out a case of sedition against the appellant. Section 152 of the Criminal
Procedure Code was cited in support of the submission, in particular
sub-s. (4) which reads:
(4) The law and section of the law against which the offence is said to
have been committed shall be mentioned in the charge.

G

Decision
[64] The issue of defective charge was canvassed in Fan Yew Teng v. PP
[1975] 1 LNS 38; [1975] 2 MLJ 235. This issue was dismissed by the
Federal Court wherein Lee Hun Hoe CJ (Borneo) said:

H

I

The fourth ground of appeal is that the appellant was given insufficient
particulars of the offence alleged against him and, therefore, the charge
was bad in law. Mr. Karpal Singh argued that as section 3(1) of the
Sedition Act specifies six different kinds of seditious tendencies, the
prosecution should have specified in what way the publication complained
of was seditious, and that failure of the prosecution to do so embarrassed
the appellant and rendered the charge bad in law. He referred to a
specimen charge at page 317 of Ratanlal’s Law of Crimes, 22nd edition,
under section 124A of the Indian Penal Code. He also cited Lim Beh v.
Opium Farmer, Public Prosecutor v. Lee Pak and Pek Tin Shu v. Public Prosecutor.



56

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

With all due respect, we do not think that there is any merit in this
argument. The forms of charges set out in Ratanlal’s Law of Crimes merely
serves as a general guide and bear no relation to any particular set of facts.
The offence of murder is committed only if there was present intention
or knowledge of the kinds mentioned in section 299 and 300 of the Penal
Code, and yet when a person is charged with murder, it is unnecessary
for the prosecution to specify in the charge the particular intention or
knowledge set out in the two sections on which it relies, and indeed it
can shift its ground during the course of the prosecution. In our judgment,
in a prosecution under section 4(1)(c) of the Sedition Act, it is equally
unnecessary for the Public Prosecutor to specify in the charge on which
of the six tendencies set out in section 3(1) he relies and that it is open
to him during the course of the trial to pick and choose.

A

B

C

[65] Guided by the above decision of the Federal Court, I similarly
dismissed the issue of defective charge as being devoid of any merit.
Evaluation Of The Defence
[66] The fourth and the fifth grounds of appeal relate to the defence. To
recapitulate, the defence of the appellant was premised on s. 3(2)(a) of the
Sedition Act. The High Court Judge was alive of this defence when
His Lordship said:
15. Tertuduh juga menyatakan bahawa beliau bertujuan untuk
menunjukkan hanya kekhilafan di pihak Sultan sahaja akan cara
“manner” Baginda bertindak. Tertuduh menghujahkan adalah bukan
suatu kesalahan di pihak dirinya sebagai peguam pengalamannya luas
dalam isu-isu perlembagaan dan melalui P3 dan Lampiran A dengan
berlandaskan Perlembagaan Negeri dan nas-nas kes yang diputuskan
sendiri oleh Mahkamah di Malaysia menyatakan akan pendapat beliau.

[67] The complaint of learned counsel was that the High Court had failed
to evaluate the defence independently and had also failed to make his finding
on whether the appellant had made out a defence under s. 3(2) of the Sedition
Act. The failure, according to learned counsel, resulted in the appellant not
having a fair trial.

D

E

F

G

Decision
[68] It is trite that at the conclusion of the trial, the High Court Judge is
duty bound to consider all the evidence as mandated under s. 182A(1) of the
Criminal Procedure Code. I endorse the judgment of this court in Prasit
Punyang v. PP [2014] 7 CLJ 392 where Azahar Mohamed JCA (now FCJ)
said:
[8] ... In accordance with the provisions of s. 182A(1) of the Criminal
Procedure Code , it is the duty-bound of learned JC, at the conclusion
of the trial, to consider all the evidence adduced before him and shall
decide whether the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable
doubt. The legislature has advisedly used the term “all the evidence”. The

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

57

emphasis must be on the word “all”. ... The aim of this provision is
obviously to make certain that an accused person gets a fair trial. In the
recent case of Ahmad Mukamal Abdul Wahab & Ors v. PP [2013] 4 CLJ 949,
Hamid Sultan Abu Backer, JCA in delivering the judgment of this court
has explained that the trial court has a duty and obligation to fairly and
justly weigh the defence version and evidence (including the cautioned
statement of the accused) or for that matter a story by the accused to
reach a just result.

[69] I have perused the grounds of judgment of the High Court at the end
of the defence case. I find merit in the submission of learned counsel that the
High Court had failed to look at and to evaluate the defence of the appellant
independently and had failed to make a finding whether the appellant was
successful in his defence. What is apparent from the judgment of the
High Court is that, in finding that the prosecution had proved its case against
the appellant beyond reasonable doubt, the High Court quoted and relied on
paras. 42-44, 67 and 89 of the grounds of judgment of this court in calling
for the defence (see pp. 99-103 appeal record: vol. 7). Apart from quoting
the findings of this court as adverted to above, I find no evaluation by the
learned High Court Judge of the defence.
[70] Clearly, the learned High Court Judge had overlooked the fact that in
calling for the defence, this court only decided the case at the stage of the
prosecution’s case. This was made clear by Ahmad Maarof JCA (now FCJ)
when His Lordship stated “berdasarkan kepada ... keterangan yang
dikemukakan di peringkat ini ...” and “di peringkat ini pembelaan di bawah
3(2)(a) Akta 15 adalah tidak terpakai.” The emphasis was on “diperingkat
ini” ie, at the prosecution’s case. The defence remains to be evaluated and
considered by the High Court where a decision on whether the prosecution
had proved its case beyond reasonable doubt had to be made by the High
Court having regard to the whole case.
[71] In Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85; [2005] 2 MLJ 301, the Federal
Court had stated:

G

H

I

Proof beyond reasonable doubt involves two aspects. While one is the
legal burden on the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable
doubt, the other is the evidential burden on the accused to raise a
reasonable doubt. Both these burdens can only be fully discharged at the
end of the whole case when the defence has closed its case. Therefore
a case can be said to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt only at
the conclusion of the trial upon the consideration of all the evidence
adduced as provided by s. 182A(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code. That
would normally be the position where the accused has given evidence.
However, where the accused remains silent there will be no necessity to
re-evaluate the evidence in order to determine whether there is a
reasonable doubt in the absence of any further evidence for such
consideration. The prima facie evidence which was capable of supporting
a conviction beyond reasonable doubt will constitute proof beyond
reasonable doubt.



58

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

[72] The appellant had given evidence under oath and he was crossexamined. He stated that the real reason why he held the press conference
was for public interest. It was meant to explain to the public the political
crisis in the State of Perak and that he was giving his legal opinion. The
appellant further stated that the Sultan of Perak could not be questioned on
HRH’s prerogative and that he did not question the power or prerogative of
the Sultan of Perak but that he was questioning the manner HRH the Sultan
of Perak applied the prerogative and resolved the crisis, which in the
appellant’s view, was wrong. And whether his view was right or wrong, that
was his opinion.

A

[73] Surely the defence given on oath deserved to be analysed and
evaluated by the High Court. However, there was simply no evaluation of
the defence version and evidence. The High Court had merely relied on the
judgment of this court at the end of the prosecution’s case. By doing so, the
High Court had impliedly rejected the defence premised on the judgment of
this court in calling upon the appellant to enter his defence. This approach,
with respect, is erroneous.

C

[74] The failure of the High Court Judge to consider the entire case against
the appellant which included not only the case for the prosecution but also
the case for the defence, is a misdirection in law. Authorities are replete that
the failure of a trial judge to consider the defence amounts to miscarriage of
justice which is sufficient on its own to have the conviction set aside
(see Mohamed Shariff v. PP [1964] 1 LNS 114; [1964] MLJ 64; Er Ah Kiat
v. PP [1965] 1 LNS 37; [1965] 2 MLJ 239; Mohamed Din v. PP [1984] 1 LNS
171; [1985] 2 MLJ 251; Alcontara a/l Ambross Anthony v. PP [1996] 1 CLJ
705; [1996] 1 MLJ 209; Rozmi bin Yusof v. PP [2013] 4 CLJ 384; [2013] 5
MLJ 66; see also Chang Lee Swee v. PP [1984] 1 LNS 134; [1985] 1 MLJ 75;
Chai Tee Keiong v. PP [2013] 1 LNS 975; [2014] 2 MLJ 246; Mohd Nazri bin
Omar & Ors v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 576; [2014] 5 MLJ 644; Nguyen Quoc Viet
v. PP [2016] 1 CLJ 365; [2016] 1 AMR 453; Songsil Udtoom & Ors v. PP [2016]
1 CLJ 39; [2016] 1 MLJ 41).
[75] I am mindful of the powers that this court has to review and
reevaluate all the evidence adduced (see Ahmad Najib Aris v. PP [2009] 2 CLJ
800; [2009] 2 MLJ 613) and that there is an exception to the general
principle of law that where there is a misdirection, an appellate court will
quash a conviction (see Tunde Apatira & Ors v. PP [2001] 1 CLJ 381; [2001]
1 MLJ 259). However, on the facts and circumstances of this case, I do not
think that it falls under the exception to the general rule. In my view, the
miscarriage of justice occasioned to the appellant due to the misdirection of
the learned trial judge had rendered the conviction unsafe.

B

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

59

A

[76] I echo the following words of Fullagar J in Mraz v. The Queen (1955)
93 CLR 493 at p. 514 in addressing s. 6(1) of the New South Wales Criminal
Appeal Act 1912, which is pari materia with s. 60(1) of our Courts of
Judicature Act 1964, as quoted in the judgment of the Federal Court in Tunde
Apatira (supra):

B

It is very established that the proviso to s. 6(1) does not mean that a
convicted person, on an appeal under the act, must show that he ought
not to have been convicted of anything. It ought to be read and it has
in fact always been read, in the light of the long tradition of the English
criminal law that every accused person is entitled to a trial in which the
relevant law is correctly explained to the jury and the rules of procedure
and evidence are strictly followed. If there is any failure in any of these
respects and the appellant may have thereby lost a chance which was fairly
open to him of being acquitted, there is in the eye of the law, a miscarriage
of justice. Justice has miscarried in such cases, because the appellant has
not had what the law says that he shall have, and justice is justice
according to law. It is for the Crown to make it clear that there is no real
possibility that justice has miscarried.

C

D

E

F

[77] Be that as it may, I have taken the liberty to peruse the evidence
of the appellant at pp. 30-70 of appeal record vol. 7, the gist as set out in
paras. 10-12 and 50 above, which I do not propose to repeat. Having tested
the defence against the prosecution’s case and looking at the underlined
words in Lampiran A; looking at Lampiran A as a whole where the words
“my view” appeared several times and looking at the context in which the
speech in Lampiran A was made, it is my judgment that the defence of the
appellant that he was stating his opinion on the political crisis in the State
of Perak and that the act of HRH the Sultan of Perak was premature, falls
under s. 3(2)(a) of the Sedition Act, namely that the appellant wanted to show
that the Ruler has been mistaken in his measures.
[78] To conclude, I allow the appeal. The conviction and sentence of the
High Court is set aside. The appellant is acquitted and discharged.

G

H

I

Kamardin Hashim JCA:
[79] This is an appeal by the appellant against conviction and sentence for
an offence under s. 4(1)(b) of the Sedition Act 1948 meeted out by the learned
High Court Judge at Kuala Lumpur. We heard the appeal, at the end of
which, we dismissed by majority, comprising my learned brother Justice
Mohtarudin bin Baki and myself. My learned sister Justice Tengku Maimun
binti Tuan Mat dissented.
[80] I have had the privilege and advantage of reading and considering the
judgments of my learned brother and sister judges in draft. I concurred with
my learned brother Justice Mohtarudin bin Baki judgment in dismissing the
appellant’s appeal. The following is my judgment in support of my learned
brother.



60

Current Law Journal

[81]

[2016] 8 CLJ

The charged framed against the appellant was as follows:

Bahawa kamu pada 6 Februari 2009 jam antara 12:00 tengahari dan 12:30
petang di Tetuan Karpal Singh & Co yang beralamat No. 67, Jalan Pudu
Lama, dalam Daerah Dang Wangi, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
dalam satu sidang akhbar telah menyebut kata-kata menghasut (transkrip
ucapan dilampirkan sebagai LAMPIRAN ‘A’ kepada pertuduhan ini dan
kata-kata menghasut digariskan); dan oleh yang demikian, kamu telah
melakukan satu kesalahan di bawah seksyen 4(1)(b) Akta Hasutan 1948
(Akta 15) dan boleh dihukum di bawah seksyen 4(1) Akta yang sama.

[82] The Lampiran ‘A’ to the charge can be found in the judgment of my
learned sister Justice Tengku Maimun binti Tuan Mat. It is not necessary for
me to repeat them.
[83] The background facts have been laid down by the learned trial judge
in his grounds of judgment which can be found at pp. 90-139 of the appeal
record vol.1. I do not wish to repeat them as well. At the end of the
prosecution case, the learned trial judge found that the prosecution had failed
to make out a prima facie case. The appellant was thus acquitted and
discharged without defence being called.
[84] The prosecution appealed against the acquittal was allowed by this
court whereby the appellant was ordered to enter his defence before the same
trial judge. The judgment of this court can be seen in PP lwn. Karpal Singh
Ram Singh [2012] 5 CLJ 580; [2012] 4 MLJ 443.
[85] In essence, the appellant’s defence was that what was stated in the
press statement and Lampiran ‘A’ did not and cannot come within the
meaning of s. 3(1)(a), (d) or (f) of the Act. The other defence raised by the
appellant was that, that there was selective prosecution by the Attorney
General.
[86] After discussing the appellant’s defence, the learned trial judge found
the appellant’s explanation to be baseless and without merit. The learned
trial judge found that once seditious tendency had been proven, intention is
no longer relevant. In the premise, the learned trial judge found the appellant
guilty and sentenced him accordingly.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

[87] Before us learned counsel for the appellant canvassed five grounds of
appeal in his submissions, as follows:
(i) that the Sedition Act 1948 is unconstitutional as it is contrary to
art. 10(2) of the Federal Constitution and is incapable of being modified
under art. 162(6);
(ii) that the Sedition Act 1948 is unconstitutional as it did not meet the
reasonableness and proportionality tests;

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

61

(iii) that the charge against the appellant was defective;
(iv) failure of the trial judge to consider the defence under s. 3(2)(a) of the
Act amounting to misdirection; and
(v) that the trial judge failed to evaluate appellant’s defence independently.

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

[88] On the issue regarding constitutionality of the impugned Act and
likewise on the issue of defective charges, both issues had been discussed at
length by my learned sister Justice Tengku Maimun binti Tuan Mat in her
judgment. I am in total agreement with Her Ladyship’s findings as regard to
the two issues. I need only add that there is a presumption of constitutionality
that favours the impugned statutory provisions (PP v. Su Liang Yu [1976] 1
LNS 113; [1976] 2 MLJ 128). The burden is on the appellant to show
otherwise. The arguments put forward by the appellant’s counsel failed to
discharge the burden. The two issues were devoid of any merit in the appeal.
I would hold that the Act is valid and constitutional.
[89] In PP v. Azmi Sharom [2015] 8 CLJ 921, the Federal Court had
considered the issue on the constitutionality of the Sedition Act 1948 from
the angle of reasonable test and the proportionality test by virtue of s. 3(2)
of the same Act. In the final analysis, the apex court come to the conclusion
that the impugned Act was constitutional and the validity of the Act comes
under the saving provisions of art. 162 of the Federal Constitution.
[90] In my considered view that the restrictions imposed by s. 4(1) of the
Sedition Act 1948 does not infringe the reasonable test and the
proportionality test. Thus, the restrictions imposed in s. 4(1) of the Act fell
squarely within the ambit or parameter of art. 10(2)(a) of the Federal
Constitution. The restrictions imposed does not run counter to art. 10(2)(a).
I hold that the Act is constitutionally enacted by Parliament and remain a
valid and enforceable law.
[91] On the issue raised by learned counsel on the effect of s. 3(3) of the
Act which amount to total prohibition and in contra with sub-s. (2) of s. 3
thereby against art. 10(2) of the Federal Constitution, my view is that, that
we go back to the cardinal rule of interpretation of statute. It is trite that the
court of law duty bound to interpret the law as it is and to give effect to its
provisions. In cases where there were nugatory provisions, it is the duty of
the legislator to make some amendments. As far as we are concerned,
s. 3(2) of the Act is valid and in the spirit and purpose of in enacting the Act
by Parliament, ie to curb any act, word or publication having a seditious
tendency as defined in s. 3(1) paras. (a) to (f) of the Act.



62

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

[92] In PP v. Sihabduin Hj Salleh & Anor [1981] CLJ 39; [1981] CLJ (Rep)
82; [1980] 2 MLJ 273 the Federal Court on similar related issue had decided
as follows:
Secondly, the relevant law-maker has power to amend the law at any time
to change this principle so as to render it unnecessary for the prosecution
to prove a prima facie case at the end of its case, so that thereafter the
court is obliged to call on the accused to enter on his defence, even if no
prima facie case has been proved against him.
Thirdly, if the law-maker so amends the law, to paraphrase the words of
Lord Diplock at page 541 in Duport Steels Ltd. v. Sirs, the role of the
judiciary is confined to ascertaining from the words that the law-maker
has approved as expressing its intention what that intention was, and to
giving effect to it. Where the meaning of the words is plain and
unambiguous it is not for judges to invent fancied ambiguities as an
excuse for failing to give effect to its plain meaning because they
themselves consider that the consequences of doing so would be
inexpedient, or even unjust or immoral; or to paraphrase the words of
Lord Scarman at page 551 in the same case, in the field of statute law
the judge must be obedient to the will of the law-maker as expressed in
its enactments, the judge has power of choice where differing
constructions are possible, but he must choose the construction which in
his judgment best meets the legislative purpose of the enactment. Even
if the result be unjust but inevitable, he must not deny the statute;
unpalatable statute law may not be disregarded or rejected, simply because
it is unpalatable; the judge’s duty is to interpret and apply it.

[93] As regard to the authority cited by learned counsel of a Singapore case,
Tan Eng Hong v. Attorney-General [2012] 4 SLR 476, my view is that in
interpreting provisions in our Federal Constitution, we should look at the
circumstances prevailing in our country. Thus, Tan Eng Hong (supra)
decision is in the most, persuasive in nature. (Bato Bagi & Ors. v. Kerajaan
Negeri Sarawak & Another Appeal [2011] 8 CLJ 766 and PP v. Kok Wah Kuan
[2007] 6 CLJ 341).
[94] On the issue of defective charge, the same was argued in Fan Yew Teng
v. PP [1975] 1 LNS 38; [1975] 2 MLJ 235. The issue was dismissed by the
Federal Court as devoid of any merit. At p. 237, Lee Hun Hoe CJ (Borneo)
said:
The fourth ground of appeal is that the appellant was given insufficient
particulars of the offence alleged against him and, therefore, the charge
was bad in law. Mr. Karpal Singh argued that as section 3(1) of the
Sedition Act specifies six different kinds of seditious tendencies, the
prosecution should have specified in what way the publication complained
of was seditious, and that the failure of the prosecution to do so
embarrassed the appellant and rendered the charge bad in law.
He referred to a specimen charge at page 317 of Ratanlal’s Law of Crimes,

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2016] 8 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

Karpal Singh Ram Singh v. PP
& Another Appeal

63

22nd edition, under section 124A of the Indian Penal Code. He also cited
Lim Beh v. Opium Farmer, Public Prosecutor v. Lee Pak and Pek Tin Shu v. Public
Prosecutor.
With all due respect, we do not think that there is any merit in this
argument. The forms of charges set out in Ratanlal’s Law of Crimes merely
serve as a general guide and bear no relation to any particular set of facts.
The offence of murder is committed only if there was present intention
or knowledge of the kinds mentioned in sections 299 and 300 of the Penal
Code, and yet when a person is charged with murder, it is unnecessary
for the prosecution to specify in the charge the particular intention or
knowledge set out in the two sections on which it relies, and indeed it
can shift its ground during the course of the prosecution. In our judgment,
in a prosecution under section 4(1)(c) of the Sedition Act, it is equally
unnecessary for the Public Prosecutor to specify in the charge on which
of the six tendencies set out in section 3(1) he relies and that it is open
to him during the course of the trial to pick and choose.

[95] I would dismissed the issue of defective charge as without any merit.
It was never raised during the trial that the appellant had been misled or
prejudiced. It was not shown to me that due to the alleged defective charge
a miscarriage of justice had occurred in this case as against the appellant.
[96] And now, to the most important issue regarding evaluation of the
defence by the trial judge where my learned sister Justice Tengku Maimun
Tuan Mat had dissented. The complaint by learned counsel was that the trial
judge had failed to evaluate the defence independently and the trial judge also
failed to make his finding on whether the appellant had made out a defence
under s. 3(2) of the Act with regard to lack of intention on the part of the
appellant.
[97] In his judgment, after highlighting the defences raised by the appellant,
the learned trial judge concludes as follows:

G

H

I

[36] Mahkamah setelah meneliti Penghakiman Mahkamah Rayuan
Malaysia secara keseluruhannya dan pembuktian di dalam kes
pendakwaan dan meneliti pembelaan tertuduh memutuskan tertuduh
gagal menimbulkan sebarang keraguan munasabah ke atas kes pihak
pendakwaan. Bahawa pihak pendakwaan tanpa sebarang keraguan yang
munsabah telah berjaya membuktikan bahawa Kenyataan Akhbar oleh
tertuduh di P3 dan Lampiran A mempunyai kecenderungan menghasut
bagi mendatangkan kebencian atau penghinaan atau membangkitkan
perasaan tidak setia terhadap DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang
diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(a) dan kecenderungan menghasut bagi
menimbulkan perasaan tidak puas hati atau tidak setia di kalangan rakyat
DYMM Sultan Perak seperti yang diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(d) dan
kecenderungan menghasut yang diperuntukkan di bawah s. 3(1)(f), iaitu,
kecenderungan bagi mempersoalkan kuasa prerogatif DYMM Sultan
Perak yang ditetapkan atau dilindungi di bawah Perkara 181(1)
Perlembagaan Persekutuan. Oleh itu pembelaan di bawah s. 3(2)(a) dan



64

Current Law Journal

[2016] 8 CLJ

pembelaan yang dinyatakan di atas tadi adalah tidak terpakai dan gagal
menimbulkan sebarang keraguan munasabah dan Mahkamah ini berpuas
hati bahawa perkataan-perkataan responden mempunyai kecenderungan
menghasut di bawah sub-para (a), (d) dan (f).
[37] Dengan ini Mahkamah mendapati tertuduh telah melakukan suatu
kesalahan menghasut seperti mana pertuduhan iaitu satu kesalahan di
bawah seksyen 4(1)(b) Akta 15 dan Mahkamah ini telah menjatuhkan
hukuman di bawah seksyen 4(1) Akta yang sama ke atas tertuduh.

[98] From what had been written by learned trial judge in his judgment
cannot be said that he did not consider defences put up by the appellant.
Indeed the two defences put forward by the appellant had been considered
albeit not independently. It seems that the trial judge make his finding based
so much reliance on the judgment of this court at the prima facie stage. What
the trial judge did was highlighting the defences put up by the appellant
earlier in his judgment and come to his conclusion at the later part of his
judgment.
[99] The question that arise now is whether the conviction is safe? This can
be done by looking at the press statement as found in Lampiran ‘A’, whether
the right of the appellant to free speech had comes within the ambit of
s. 3(1)(a), (d) or (f) of the Act, which in this case the trial judge had decided
so. I would certainly agree with the learned trial judge that upon reading the
impugned speech as a whole it was intended to bring into hatred or contempt
or to excite disaffection against HRH the Sultan of Perak, to raised discontent
or disaffection amongst the subjects of His Majesty beside to question any
matter, right, status, position, privilege, sovereignty or prerogative
established or protected by the provisions of Part III of the Federal
Constitution of the Ruler of Perak. Intention is irrelevant. The truth or falsity
of the words mattered is immaterial nor was the after effect of it (PP v. Mark
Koding [1982] 1 LNS 96; [1983] 1 MLJ 111).
[100] In the upshot, I would dismissed the appeal as there were no
substantial miscarriage of justice occurred in this case. The conviction is safe.
For reasons stated above, I would affirm the conviction of the High Court.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

