436

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

PP v. TAN CHAI HING
COURT OF APPEAL, PUTRAJAYA
MOHD ZAWAWI SALLEH JCA
AHMADI ASNAWI JCA
IDRUS HARUN JCA
[CRIMINAL APPEAL NO: B-05(LB)-40-01-2016]
5 APRIL 2018
CRIMINAL LAW: Murder – Penal Code, s. 302 – Circumstantial evidence –
Existence of DNA that did not match with DNA of accused – Whether created
reasonable likelihood of presence of another person at scene of murder – Whether
prosecution established prima facie case against accused – Defence – Alibi –
Whether defence created reasonable doubt on prosecution’s case – Whether trial
judge correct in acquitting and discharging accused
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Appeal – Appeal by prosecution – Murder – Appeal
against order of discharge and acquittal – Circumstantial evidence – Existence of
DNA that did not match with DNA of accused – Whether created reasonable
likelihood of presence of another person at scene of murder – Whether prosecution
established a prima facie case against accused – Whether defence created a reasonable
doubt on prosecution’s case – Whether trial judge correct in acquitting and
discharging accused
PW1, upon returning from a dental treatment, found the deceased lying on
the floor with blood by the side of her body. PW1 thereupon telephoned
PW2 and PW2 arrived not long later. Post mortem examination by PW8
revealed that the deceased’s death was attributed to ‘combined head and neck
injuries and asphyxia due to closure of mouth and nose’. The evidence
gleaned from PW1’s testimony revealed that the accused always come to his
house to repair the house and on the day in question, the accused knew that
PW1 would be going to the hospital. The police raided the accused’s house
resulting in his arrest. The accused then led the police team to a house where
two Rolex watches, a Sony Camera and a gold bar belonging to the deceased
were recovered. The accused was then charged under s. 302 of the Penal
Code for the murder of the deceased. The prosecution led evidence to the
effect that the last time the deceased called the accused was at 11.11am and
the deceased’s body was found by PW1 at 2pm. On the contrary, the charge
specified the time during which the deceased was murdered was between
11am until 1pm. Based on the evidence adduced, the learned trial judge
allowed the prosecution’s application to amend the charge to state that the
murder took place between 11.11am to 2pm. At the end of the defence case,
the learned trial judge held that the defence had succeeded in raising a
reasonable doubt in the prosecution’s case and consequently acquitted and
discharged the accused from the murder charge. The learned judge pointed
out mainly to the fact that the DNA report produced by the prosecution
through PW14 showed the presence of a mixed DNA of two contributories

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

437

from the bloodstains on a yellow rafia string one of which belonged to the
deceased whilst the other belonged to an unknown person. There was, in
addition, a common DNA profile from two cigarette butts which did not
match with the DNA profile developed from the accused’s blood specimen
indicating that the DNA identified originated from different sources. The
learned judge also found that the prosecution failed to lead evidence through
PW1 that, on the day in question, he saw the deceased were the gold chain
before he went to the hospital, holding that such failure was fatal to the
prosecution’s case as the defence case was that the accused stole the same a
few days earlier. As regards the evidence of alibi that between 12pm until
2pm the accused went to PW5’s jewellery shop, the learned judge was
satisfied that the accused’s evidence had cast a reasonable doubt in the
prosecution’s case in that at the relevant time he was not at the deceased’s
house. Dissatisfied, the prosecution appealed.
Held (dismissing appeal; affirming order of acquittal and discharge of the
High Court)
Per Idrus Harun JCA delivering the judgment of the court:
(1) The accused in his defence testified that he telephoned the deceased six
times on the day in question. If the accused was already at the deceased’s
house, why was there the evidence that the accused needed to call the
deceased. This evidence showed that the prosecution’s case, that the
accused was at the deceased’s house between 11.11am to 2pm, was very
much in doubt. (paras 14 & 15)
(2) The learned judge, having evaluated the evidence in its entirety chose to
accept PW8’s evidence on the time the deceased succumbed and His
Lordship’s conclusion on the issue of alibi was clearly justified. Taking
11:16:33am as the time the accused went to the deceased’s house and the
irrefragable evidence of PW8 relating to the time the deceased died, the
learned judge was perfectly entitled to conclude that PW16, had failed
to carry out a thorough and further investigation in respect of the defence
of alibi. In fact, when he testified for the defence as DW2, the
investigation officer confirmed the content of the notice of alibi that the
accused went to PW5’s jewellery shop between 12pm to 2pm. This
evidence consequently led the learned judge to accept the accused’s
evidence that the accused went to the said jewellery shop during the time
in question. The failure by the prosecution to lead evidence through
PW1 that on the day before the murder and specifically, before PW1 left
for the hospital, the deceased was wearing the gold chain exacerbated the
problem further in the prosecution’s case and thus provided some
semblance of truth to the accused’s evidence that he stole the gold chain
a few days before the fateful incident and pawned it at PW5’s jewellery
shop between 12pm to 2pm on 13 December 2013 and that he did not
go to the deceased’s house on the day she was murdered. (para 16)



438

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

(3) The prosecution’s case was with manifest flaws, gaps and doubts which
the defence had successfully laid bare. The prosecution’s case was
wholly reliant on the circumstantial evidence which when considered in
totality was fraught and abound with reasonable doubts. Evidence also
showed that a mixed DNA profile of two contributors developed from
the blood stains on the yellow rafia string, one belonging to the
deceased, and the other, to an unknown person. From the two cigarette
butts, found near the door and on the staircase outside the house, a
common male DNA profile developed therefrom did not match with the
DNA profile of the accused. This evidence indicated the presence of one
unknown male individual, but not the accused, suggesting the possibility
that the accused was not at the scene of crime and a reasonable
likelihood of the presence of the said unknown male person who could
have committed the offence. (paras 17 & 18)
(4) The prosecution’s case is wholly dependent on circumstantial evidence.
Such evidence in law must be considered as a whole. Not only that the
court must consider the strength of each individual evidence but also the
combined strength of this evidence so that when taken as a whole, it is
strong enough to raise an inference to connect it to a conclusion of fact
that it was the accused who murdered the deceased. The reliance on the
DNA evidence fell short of achieving the purpose of bolstering the
prosecution’s case. It, on the other, had weakened the prosecution’s case
creating, inevitable gaps in the chain of evidence, hence, casting a
reasonable doubt in the prosecution’s case. (para 19)

A

B

C

D

E

Bahasa Malaysia Headnotes
PW1, setelah pulang dari rawatan pergigian, mendapati si mati terbaring di
atas lantai dengan darah di sisi tubuhnya. PW1 kemudian menelefon PW2
dan PW2 tiba tidak lama kemudian. Pemeriksaan bedah siasat oleh PW8
mendedahkan bahawa kematian si mati disebabkan oleh ‘kecederaan kepala
dan leher digabung dan asfiksia akibat penutupan mulut dan hidung’.
Keterangan yang diperoleh daripada keterangan PW1 menunjukkan bahawa
tertuduh selalu datang ke rumahnya untuk membaiki rumahnya dan pada
hari yang dipersoalkan, tertuduh tahu bahawa PW1 akan pergi ke hospital.
Pihak polis menyerbu rumah tertuduh yang membawa kepada
penangkapannya. Tertuduh kemudian membawa pasukan polis ke sebuah
rumah di mana dua jam tangan Rolex, Kamera Sony dan bar emas yang
dimiliki oleh si mati ditemui. Tertuduh kemudian dituduh di bawah s. 302
Kanun Keseksaan atas kesalahan membunuh si mati. Pihak pendakwaan
mengemukakan keterangan bahawa kali terakhir si mati membuat panggilan
kepada tertuduh pada 11.11 pagi dan mayat si mati ditemui oleh PW1 pada
jam 2 petang. Sebaliknya, pertuduhan menspesifikasikan masa si mati
meninggal dunia antara jam 11 pagi hingga 1 petang. Berdasarkan keterangan

F

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

439

yang dikemukakan, hakim bicara membenarkan permohonan pendakwaan
untuk meminda pertuduhan untuk menyatakan pembunuhan tersebut berlaku
antara pukul 11.11 pagi hingga 2 petang. Pada akhir kes pembelaan, hakim
perbicaraan berpendapat bahawa pembelaan telah berjaya menimbulkan
keraguan munasabah dalam kes pendakwaan dan membebaskan dan
melepaskan tertuduh dari tuduhan tersebut. Hakim perbicaraan menerangkan
terutamanya fakta bahawa laporan DNA yang dikemukakan oleh
pendakwaan melalui PW14 menunjukkan kehadiran DNA campuran dua
penyumbang dari darah pada rentetan rafia kuning yang salah satunya milik
si mati sementara yang lain milik seorang yang tidak dikenali. Di samping
itu, profil DNA daripada dua puntung rokok tidak sepadan dengan profil
DNA yang dihasilkan daripada spesimen darah tertuduh menunjukkan
bahawa DNA yang dikenal pasti berasal dari sumber yang berbeza. Hakim
bicara juga mendapati bahawa pihak pendakwaan gagal mengemukakan
keterangan melalui PW1 bahawa, pada hari berkenaan, dia melihat si mati
memakai rantai emas sebelum dia pergi ke hospital, memutuskan bahawa
kegagalan tersebut adalah memudaratkan kepada pihak pendakwaan kerana
kes pembelaan tertuduh adalah bahawa tertuduh telah mencuri rantai
tersebut beberapa hari sebelum itu. Berkenaan dengan keterangan alibi
bahawa antara pukul 12 tengah hari hingga 2 petang tertuduh telah pergi ke
kedai barang kemas PW5, hakim bicara berpuas hati bahawa keterangan
tertuduh telah mewujudkan keraguan munasabah ke atas kes pendakwaan
bahawa pada masa yang relevan itu, tertuduh tidak berada di rumah si mati.
Tidak berpuas hati, pihak pendakwaan merayu.
Diputuskan (menolak rayuan; mengesahkan perintah pelepasan dan
pembebasan Mahkamah Tinggi)
Oleh Idrus Harun HMR menyampaikan penghakiman mahkamah:
(1) Tertuduh dalam pembelaannya memberi keterangan bahawa dia
menelefon si mati enam kali pada hari yang dipersoalkan. Jika tertuduh
sudah berada di rumah si mati, kenapa ada keterangan bahawa tertuduh
perlu menelefon si mati. Keterangan ini menunjukkan bahawa kes
pendakwaan bahawa tertuduh berada di rumah si mati antara 11.11 pagi
hingga 2 petang sangat diragui.
(2) Hakim perbicaraan, setelah menilai keterangan secara keseluruhannya
memilih untuk menerima keterangan PW8 berkaitan masa si mati
meninggal dan kesimpulannya pada isu alibi jelas dijustifikasi.
Mengambil masa 11:16:33 pagi sebagai masa tertuduh pergi ke rumah
si mati dan keterangan yang tidak diakas oleh PW8 berkaitan dengan
masa si mati meninggal dunia, hakim bicara berhak untuk
menyimpulkan bahawa PW16, telah gagal melaksanakan dengan teliti
dan siasatan lanjut mengenai pembelaan alibi tertuduh. Malah, ketika
dia memberi keterangan mengenai pembelaan sebagai DW2, pegawai
penyiasat mengesahkan kandungan notis alibi bahawa tertuduh telah
pergi ke kedai barang kemas PW5 antara pukul 12 hingga 2 petang.



440

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

Keterangan ini seterusnya menyebabkan hakim perbicaraan untuk
menerima keterangan tertuduh bahawa tertuduh pergi ke kedai barang
kemas tersebut pada waktu yang dipersoalkan. Kegagalan pihak
pendakwaan mengemukakan keterangan melalui PW1 bahawa pada hari
sebelum pembunuhan dan khususnya, sebelum PW1 ke hospital, si mati
memakai rantai emas memburukkan lagi kes pendakwaan dan, dengan
itu, menyokong keterangan pembelaan tertuduh bahawa tertuduh telah
mencuri rantai emas beberapa hari sebelum kejadian pembunuhan
tersebut dan menggadaikannya di kedai barang kemas PW5 antara pukul
12 tengah hari hingga 2 petang pada 13 Disember 2013 dan bahawa dia
tidak pergi ke rumah si mati pada hari dia dibunuh.
(3) Kes pendakwaan mengandungi kesilapan nyata, jurang dan keraguan
yang diwujudkan oleh pembelaan. Kes pendakwaan bergantung
sepenuhnya pada keterangan ikut keadaan yang, apabila dipertimbangkan
dalam keseluruhannya, menimbulkan keraguan munasabah. Keterangan
juga menunjukkan bahawa profil DNA campuran dua penyumbang yang
dihasilkan daripada kesan darah pada tali rafia kuning dimiliki oleh
si mati dan satu lagi orang yang tidak dikenali. Daripada dua puntung
rokok, yang terdapat berhampiran pintu dan di tangga di luar rumah,
profil DNA lelaki terhasil daripadanya tidak berpadanan dengan profil
DNA tertuduh. Keterangan ini menunjukkan kehadiran seorang lelaki
yang tidak dikenali, tetapi bukan tertuduh, mencadangkan kemungkinan
bahawa tertuduh tidak berada di tempat kejadian dan kemungkinan
munasabah kehadiran seorang lelaki lain yang tidak dikenali melakukan
kesalahan tersebut.
(4) Kes pendakwaan bergantung sepenuhnya pada keterangan mengikut
keadaan. Keterangan sedemikian dalam undang-undang mesti
dipertimbangkan secara keseluruhannya. Bukan sahaja mahkamah mesti
menimbangkan kekuatan setiap keterangan individu tetapi juga kekuatan
gabungan keterangan ini supaya apabila diambil secara keseluruhannya,
ia cukup kuat untuk menimbulkan anggapan untuk mengaitkan kepada
kesimpulan fakta bahawa ia adalah tertuduh yang membunuh si mati.
Pergantungan terhadap keterangan DNA tidak menguatkan kes
pendakwaan. Sebaliknya, ia melemahkan kes pendakwaan dengan
menimbulkan jurang yang tidak dapat dielakkan dalam rantai keterangan
yang menyebabkan keraguan yang munasabah dalam kes pendakwaan.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

Case(s) referred to:
Jaafar Ali v. PP [1999] 1 CLJ 410 HC (refd)
Magendran Mohan v. PP [2011] 1 CLJ 805 FC (refd)
Mohamad Radhi Yaakob v. PP [1991] 3 CLJ 2073; [1991] 1 CLJ (Rep) 311 SC (refd)
PP v. Hanif Basree Abdul Rahman [2008] 4 CLJ 1 FC (refd)
PP v. Iskandar Mohamad Yusof [2006] 6 CLJ 379 HC (refd)

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

441

Legislation referred to:
Criminal Procedure Code, s. 182A
Penal Code, s. 302
For the appellant - Tengku Intan Suraya Tengku Ismail; DPP
For the respondent - Tan Choon Hong; M/s Tan Choon Hong & Assocs

B

[Editor’s note: For the High Court judgment, please see PP v. Tan Chai Hing [2016] 1
LNS 1038 (affirmed).]

Reported by Sandra Gabriel
JUDGMENT
C

D

E

F

G

H

I

Idrus Harun JCA:
[1]
The accused in this case was, at the end of the defence, acquitted and
discharged by the High Court from the charge of murder under s. 302 of the
Penal Code. The Public Prosecutor appealed against the said order of
acquittal and discharge. The charge (exh. P2A) against the accused initially
reads as follow:
Bahawa kamu di antara 13 Disember 2013 jam lebih kurang 11.00 pagi
hingga 1.00 tengahari, bertempat di No. 129, Jalan SS 22A/2, Damansara
Jaya, Petaling Jaya di dalam Daerah Petaling di dalam Negeri Selangor
Darul Ehsan dengan sengaja menyebabkan kematian kepada Leong Yoke
Leong @ Chan Yoke Lan (No. Kad Pengenalan: 370815-08-5104). Oleh
yang demikian, kamu telah melakukan kesalahan yang boleh dihukum di
bawah Seksyen 302 Kanun Keseksaan.

[2]
Before proceeding further, we may mention that the prosecution led
evidence to the effect that the last time the deceased called the accused was
at 11.11am and the deceased’s body was found by PW1 at 2pm. On the
contrary, the charge set out above specifies the time during which the
deceased was murdered was between 11am until 1pm. Based on the evidence
adduced, the learned trial judge allowed the prosecution’s application to
amend the charge to state that the murder took place between 11.11am to 2pm.
[3]
We shall next proceed to state the material facts which we have
garnered from the evidence led by the prosecution and as found by the
learned judge in the court below. In the morning of 13 December 2013, Yip
Chee Fook (PW1), the deceased’s husband, went to the Kuala Lumpur
General Hospital to seek dental treatment. He left the hospital thereafter to
meet his friend at Jalan Pekeliling for approximately 1 hour. He returned
home circa 2pm. Upon reaching his house, PW1 noticed that the gate was
closed but the side door of the house was open. Upon entering the house,
PW1 proceeded to the upper floor of the house and noticed that the door to
a room was open. He saw the deceased lying on the floor with blood by the
side of her body. Feeling scared, PW1 thereupon telephoned his son-in-law,
Eddy Choo Choong Siong (PW2). The evidence gleaned from PW1’s
testimony shows that the accused always came to his house to repair the



442

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

house and on the day in question, the accused knew that PW1 would be going
to the hospital. PW2 arrived at about 2.45pm. He was accompanied by a
security guard. PW2 saw the deceased lying on the floor in PW1’s room with
a black coloured adhesive tape or sellotape occluding her mouth and nose.
He also saw blood beside the body of the deceased. PW2 immediately dialled
‘999’ and the police arrived at the scene of crime between 3pm to 3.30pm.
The investigation officer, Assistant Superintendent Ranjit Singh a/l Harbajan
Singh (PW16), arrived at the house at about 4.20pm to investigate. He was
assisted by a forensic team headed by Inspector Mohd Rafidzan b. Mohd
Nazri (PW11). By 8.30pm and upon completion of the investigation, PW11
handed over case exhibits to PW16 for further investigation.
[4]
Based on the evidence of Professor Dr. Mathiharan Karunakaran
(PW8) who conducted a post-mortem on the deceased’s body on
14 December 2013 and a post-mortem report (exh. P30) prepared by him,
the deceased’s death was attributed to “combined head and neck injuries and
asphyxia due to closure of mouth and nose”.

A

B

C

D

[5]
The police raided the accused’s house on 23 December 2013 at about
10.45pm resulting in his arrest. He was taken to IPD Petaling Jaya for further
investigation.
[6]
On 24 December 2013 at about 9.15pm, the accused led a police team
headed by Assistant Superintendent Supari Hj. Muhammad (PW7) and
accompanied by Inspector Affendy Mohamad Nor (PW6) to a house at
No. 61A, Jalan Pandan Indah 1/23, Pandan Indah where two Rolex watches
(exhs. P55 and 56), a Sony camera (exh. P56) and a gold bar (exh. P57)
belonging to the deceased were recovered.

E

F

[7]
Based on an information provided by the accused, on 28 December
2013 at about 4.40pm, PW6 proceeded to a jewellery shop by the name of
Choon How Enterprise, at No. 33, Jalan Pudu, Kuala Lumpur. However,
nothing was recovered there. On 30 December 2013, the proprietor of the
said jewellery shop, Lai Wai Yin (PW15) handed over a green card with
number 1931 and RM2,000 written thereon (exh. P64) and a gold chain
(exh. P65) to PW7.

G

[8]
In his evidence, PW5 stated that the accused came to his shop on
13 December 2013 between 12.30pm to 2pm to pawn the gold chain for
which PW5 paid RM2,000 in return. He issued the green card (exh. P64) on
which he wrote the date of 13 December 2013, the sum of RM2,000 and the
weight of the gold chain.

H

[9]
Having undertaken a maximum evaluation of the evidence led by the
prosecution, the learned trial judge accordingly concluded at the end of the
prosecution’s case that a prima facie case against the accused on the amended
charge had been established and accordingly called upon the accused to enter
on his defence.

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

443

[10] The accused gave his evidence on oath. We summarise below the
position he adopted in his defence as found by the learned judge:
(i) on 13 December 2013, the accused woke up at about 8 or 9am. He had
breakfast after which he made a telephone call to his wife who was in
Pulau Langkawi informing her that he would be going to Thailand. The
accused then went to the market in Pudu where he met his friend by the
name of Ah Leong;
(ii) after chatting with Ah Leong, the accused, between 12pm to 2pm, went
to the jewellery shop where he pawned the deceased’s gold chain
(exh. P65). A few days before the incident he repaired the deceased’s
bathroom and he stole the gold chain in question;

D

(iii) on 13 December 2013, at about 10am, the accused went to Puduraya to
purchase a ticket for his trip to Hatyai. This he did after he pawned the
gold chain and was paid RM2,000. The bus would depart for Hatyai at
around 10pm on the same day;

E

(iv) the accused telephoned the deceased 2 to 3 times on the same day, but
there was no answer. Subsequently, according to the accused, the
deceased called him asking whether he would be coming over to her
house to repair the house to which the accused replied that he could not
do so as he would be going to Thailand;

F

G

H

I

(v) the accused returned home and had his lunch. After having a shower, the
accused met his friends and around 2 to 3pm he bought a few things for
his trip to Thailand. Thereafter, the accused went to a shop named
‘Hong Kong Shiong’ opposite the Pudu market to play computer game
until 9-9.30pm. He then proceeded to Puduraya to take a bus to Hatyai.
He returned to Malaysia on 23 December 2013; and
(vi) the accused testified that he would not return to Malaysia if he killed
the deceased and he needed to take care of his child who was schooling.
Furthermore, he was close to the deceased and PW1.
[11] At the end of the defence case, the learned trial judge held that the
defence had succeeded in raising a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case
and consequently acquitted and discharged the accused from the murder
charge. Stating the reasons very specifically, the learned judge pointed out
mainly to the fact that the DNA report produced by the prosecution
(exh. P14) through the chemist namely Hazwani bt Hapiz (PW14) showed
the presence of a mixed DNA of two contributories from the bloodstains on
a yellow rafia string (exh. P45(A)) one of which belonged to the deceased
whilst the other belonged to an unknown person. The evidence of PW11
shows that the yellow rafia string (exh. P45(A)) was found underneath the
deceased’s right arm. There was in addition, a common DNA profile from
two cigarette butts (exhs. P46(A) and P47(A)) which did not match with the



444

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

DNA profile developed from the accused’s blood specimen indicating that
the DNA identified originated from different sources. The learned judge also
found that the prosecution failed to lead evidence through PW1 that on the
day in question he saw the deceased wear the gold chain (exh. P65) before
he went to the hospital holding that such failure was fatal to the prosecution
case as the defence case was that the accused stole the same a few days earlier.
As regards the evidence of alibi (exh. D80) that between 12pm until 2pm the
accused went to PW5’s jewellery shop, the learned judge was satisfied that
the accused’s evidence had cast a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case
in that at the relevant time he was not at the deceased’s house.

A

[12] In her brief written submission, the learned Deputy Public Prosecutor
(the learned Deputy) presented three main contentions, viz:

C

B

(a) the accused’s notice of alibi failed to raise a reasonable doubt in the
prosecution case;
(b) there were discrepancies in the accused’s testimony; and

D

(c) the defence was a bare denial.
[13] However, in her oral submission before us, the learned Deputy told
us that the only issue the prosecution would much rely on would be the issue
of alibi. The learned Deputy pointed out that the notice of alibi showed that
the accused went to PW5’s jewellery shop between 12pm to 2.30pm. Since
the time the offence was alleged to have been committed as specified in the
charge was between 11.11am until 2pm, the accused failed to give notice of
his whereabouts before he went to the said jewellery shop. We considered
the evidence of the pathologist (PW8) in which he testified that the
deceased’s body was brought to the emergency ward at 7.51pm on
13 December 2013 after which it was sent to the mortuary at 9.30pm where
the body was kept in a freezer. At that time, the deceased was already dead
and she died between six to eight hours before the body was sent to the
mortuary. Thus, based on the estimated time of death as given by the expert
witness, PW8, that the deceased died between six to eight hours before the
body was sent to the mortuary, there is certainly force in the defence
contention that death could have occurred between 1.30pm to 3.30pm. It
must, moreover, be emphasised that the learned judge considered PW8’s
evidence as deliberated above and stated that deceased had probably died
between 1.51pm to 3.51pm. We have no difficulty whatsoever in holding on
the strength of this evidence, that PW8’s expert testimony lends credence to
the accused’s defence, as corroborated by PW5, and accepted by the learned
judge, that he was at PW5’s jewellery shop between 12pm to 2pm on the day
the deceased was murdered.
[14] It must be remembered that the accused in his defence testified that he
telephoned the deceased on the day in question. This evidence was clearly
supported by the documentary evidence in exhs. P78 and P79 that the

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

445

accused called the deceased 6 times at 10:46am, 10:46:41am, 10:49:46am,
11:10:54am, 11:11:35am, 11:16:33am on 13 December 2013. This
evidence, according to the learned judge and we agree with His Lordship,
that if the accused was already at the deceased’s house, why was there the
evidence that the accused needed to call the deceased until 11.16am. We find
such documentary evidence is manifestly consistent with and positively
supports the evidence of the accused.
[15] The evidence highlighted above plainly shows that the prosecution
case that the accused was at the deceased’s house between 11.11am to 2pm
is very much in doubt. We now quote from the judgment of the learned judge
the relevant paragraphs on the issue of alibi and His Lordship’s reasonings
in concluding that it is wholly unsafe to convict the accused:
33. Pertamanya, subjek material yang mengaitkan OKT dengan
kematian simati adalah barang kes rantai emas simati (P65) yang
digadai oleh OKT di kedai emas milik SP5. Dalam pembelaan OKT,
OKT mendakwa beliau mencuri P65 beberapa hari sebelum tarikh
kejadian. Berdasarkan keterangan anak simati (SP12), beliau (SP12)
masih melihat simati memakai P65 pada 2-3 hari sebelum tarikh
kejadian malang tersebut, tidak bermakna secara konklusifnya
bahawa rantai emas itu dipakai oleh simati pada tarikh kejadian.
33.1 Tambahan pula, SP1 tidak pernah dalam keterangannya
menyebut bahwa beliau ada melihat simati memakai rantai
emas itu (P65) di lehernya pada hari kejadian;
33.2 Merujuk kepada kes Amathevelli a/p P Ramasamy v. Public
Prosecutor [2009] 2 MLJ 367, Mahkamah Persekutuan telah
menyatakan:
[34] In this case the deceased was wearing the gold chain at
the time of her death. This is a material element to connect
the appellant to the murder of the deceased. This is further
supported by other evidence such as, the acid injury on the
appellant’s lips and arm when the deceased also had acid
injuries and the presence of the Yamaha motorcycle at the
deceased’s shop at about 7.05 am on the material date. Thus,
the evidence is sufficient to convict the appellant for the
murder of the deceased. The inferences drawn from the
evidence of conduct of the appellant will remain as she has
not explained them pursuant to s. 9 of the Evidence Act
1950. As Augustine Paul FCJ said in the judgment of this
court in Parlan bin Dadeh v. Public Prosecutor [2008] 6 MLJ 19
at p 44:
If the explanation is accepted by the court then the
inference arising from the conduct is rebutted. If it is not
accepted or if the accused does not explain his conduct
the inference remains unrebutted. (Penekanan ditambah)



446

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

33.3 Mahkamah ini juga mengambil ingatan seperti yang telah
disarankan melalui kes Abdullah bin Saad (supra):

A

Wills on Circumstantial Evidence, 7th edition, p. 104
has the following passage:
…
But the rule must be applied with discrimination, for
the bare possession of stolen property, though recent,
uncorroborated by other evidence, is sometimes fallacious and
dangerous as a criterion of guilt.
In the present case, the only evidence to connect the
appellant with the killing is the possession of two pieces of
jewellery, the property of the deceased, and it is not certain
that they were on the deceased’s person on the day of his
death. In our view, this did not supply sufficient
evidence on which to found a conviction for murder,
and we accordingly allowed the appeal and directed
that the appellant should be discharged. (Penekanan
ditambah)
33.4 Pada hemat saya, kegagalan Pendakwaan untuk
mengemukakan keterangan melalui SP1 (suami simati) yang
ada bersama dengan simati di rumah mereka pada pagi hari
kejadian bagi menyatakan sama ada rantai emas itu masih
dilihatnya dipakai oleh simati sebelum beliau keluar ke
hospital adalah sesuatu yang fatal. Oleh yang demikian,
Mahkamah ini memutuskan Pembelaan berjaya menimbulkan
suatu pembelaan yang munasabah atas imbangan
kebarangkalian bahawa beliau telah mencuri rantai emas itu
beberapa hari sebelum kejadian dan bukanlah pada hari
kejadian kematian simati dan mungkin tidak terlibat langsung
dalam kesalahan membunuh simati semasa kecurian barang
tersebut. Mahkamah ini mendapati tanpa keterangan
sokongan lain adalah bahaya untuk mensabitkan OKT di
bawah kesalahan membunuh simati di dalam kes ini.
Tambahan pula, aspek ini adalah relevan dan konsisten
dengan pembelaan “alibi” oleh OKT.
34. Keduanya adalah keterangan dari segi masa yang tertera
terdapat kemungkinan bahawa OKT tidak terlibat dalam
kesalahan yang dipertuduhkan di hadapan Mahkamah ini.
Pegawai Penyiasat (SP16) telah dipanggil sebagai “SD2”
semasa kes pembelaan untuk menjelaskan hasil siasatannya
mengenai notis alibi yang dikemukakan oleh OKT dan
melaluinya didapati:

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

34.1 Rumah OKT di Taman Pandan Indah, Kuala Lumpur dan
jaraknya ke rumah simati di Jalan SS 22A/2, Damansara Jaya
adalah lebih kurang 19.6km (setelah disemak google map)
yang mengambil masa selama lebih kurang 22 minit sekiranya
menggunakan perjalanan biasa jalan raya yang paling singkat
jika tiada kesesakan lalu lintas. Ini juga adalah berdasarkan
kiraan berlandaskan keterangan SP2 mengenai masa beliau
tiba di rumah simati daripada rumah beliau. Ataupun, secara
teorinya, Mahkamah ini mengambil kira OKT bertolak ke
rumah simati dari Puduraya pada jam 11.16 pagi berdasarkan
keterangan yang ada dalam perbicaraan ini melalui SP16/SD2
yang telah menyiasat dan mengemukakan rekod panggilan
telefon OKT dan rekod panggilan telefon simati. Daripada
rekod (P78A) didapati enam kali panggilan dibuat dalam
pukul 10:46:00 am, 10:46:39 am, 10:49:46 am, 11:10:52 am,
11:11:07 am dan 11:16:33 am;
34.2 Kalau benar OKT sudah berada di rumah simati,
mengapakah pula ada bukti OKT masih perlu menelefon
simati sehingga jam lebih kurang 11.16 am? Ini bermaksud
OKT tidak berada di rumah OKT sehingga jam 11.16 am dan
ini konsisten dengan pembelaan OKT. Katakanlah, OKT
mengambil masa lebih kurang 30 minit untuk sampai di
rumah simati disebabkan kesesakan lalu lintas yang biasa
berlaku di Kuala Lumpur dan dijangka sampai di rumah
simati pada jam lebih kurang 11.46 am. Seandainya pada
tarikh itu di dalam rumah simati, OKT dikatakan mengambil
masa paling singkat iaitu selama 10 minit untuk mencuri lima
jenis barang (P54, P55, P56, P57 dan P65), mengikat simati
dan mencederakan simati dan selesai pada jam lebih kurang
12.06 pm. Seterusnya, OKT bergerak ke kedai pajak milik SP5
yang terletak di Jalan Pudu, Kuala Lumpur untuk selama 30
minit dan dengan ini sampai di kedai SP5 pada jam lebih
kurang 12.36 pm. Ini adalah konsisten dengan keterangan
yang diberikan oleh SP5 yang menyatakan selepas jam 12.00
pm barulah OKT datang ke kedainya untuk memajakkan
rantai emas, dan juga disahkan melalui siasatan SP16/SD2.
Dari teori pengiraan di atas, masa simati sepatutnya mati
adalah sebelum 12.00 pm. Namun dilihat dari keterangan
pakar patologi (SP8) yang berpendapat bahawa simati telah
mati pada 13/12/2013 dalam 6 hingga 8 jam sebelum jam 7.51
pm dan ini bermakna bahawa kemungkinan si mati telah mati
pada 3.51 pm atau 2.51 pm atau 1.51 pm pada tarikh tersebut;
dan
34.3 Diteliti aspek-aspek teori dan andaian daripada fakta yang
wujud, Mahkamah ini mendapati adalah mustahil bagi OKT
yang muncul di kedai SP5 selepas tengahari dengan rantai
emas itu dan masih pulang ke rumah simati untuk
membunuh simati pada jam paling awal 1.51 pm. Mahkamah

447



448

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

ini ingin mengambil kesempatan ini untuk menekankan
kegagalan Pegawai Penyiasat (SP16/SD2) untuk menyiasat
secara lanjut, terperinci dan lengkap umpamanya tidak
membuat jangkaan masa seperti yang telah dibuat oleh
Mahkamah ini di atas. Pegawai Penyiasat (SP16/SD2) juga
tidak serius dalam menjalankan siasatan tentang notis alibi
dan hanya menyatakan pengesahan dibuat dari rakaman
percakapan SP5 dan oleh itu Mahkamah menerima
keterangan bahawah OKT muncul di kedai SP5 di Jalan
Pudu, Kuala Lumpur pada jam 12.00pm-2.00pm. Berlandaskan
kes Pang Chee Meng v. Public Prosecutor [1992] 1 MLJ 137, OKT
tidak patut dihukum kerana siasatan Pegawai Penyiasat
tersebut yang dijalankan secara tidak menyeluruh. Jadi,
Mahkamah ini telah memutuskan untuk bergantung kepada
pendapat SP8 selepas membuat pertimbangan yang wajar
terhadap keseluruhan keterangan yang sedia ada
sepertimana yang diberikan oleh SP5, SP16/SD2 dan
jangkaan kiraan masa di atas.
35. Secara kesimpulannya, Mahkamah ini memutuskan bahawa
pembelaan alibi OKT telah berupaya menimbulkan keraguan
yang munasabah ke atas kes Pendakwaan bahawa beliau
tidak berada di rumah simati pada masa kejadian (Illian v. PP
[1988] 1 MLJ 421). Keterangan ikut keadaan yang dibuktikan
oleh Pendakwaan semasa kes prima facie telah berjaya
dipatahkan disebabkan tiada keterangan yang menunjukkan
bahawa rantai emas itu ada dipakai oleh simati pada tarikh
dan masa kejadian. OKT pula disahkan berada di kedai SP5
pada jam lebih kurang 12.00-2.00 pm dan tidak mungkin telah
menyebabkan kematian simati pada jam 1.51-3.51pm
sepertimana hasil daripada siasatan. Terdapat banyak
lompang dan keraguan yang berjaya ditimbulkan atas kes
Pendakwaan melalui pembelaan OKT ini.

[16] The learned judge, having evaluated the evidence in its entirety and in
great detail, chose to accept PW8’s evidence on the time the deceased
succumbed and we think that His Lordship’s conclusion on the issue of alibi
is clearly justified. Taking 11:16:33am as the time the accused went to the
deceased’s house and the irrefragable evidence of PW8 relating to the time
the deceased died, the learned judge was perfectly entitled to conclude that
PW16 who was also called by the defence to testify as their witness (DW2),
had failed to carry out a thorough and further investigation in respect of the
defence of alibi. In fact, when he testified for the defence as DW2, the
investigation officer confirmed the content of the notice of alibi (exh. D80)
that the accused went to PW5’s jewellery shop between 12pm to 2pm. This
evidence consequently led the learned judge to accept the accused’s evidence
that the accused went to the said jewellery shop during the time in question.
The failure by the prosecution to lead evidence through PW1 that on the day
before the murder and specifically, before PW1 left for the hospital, the

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

449

deceased was wearing the gold chain exacerbated the problem further in the
prosecution case and thus provides some semblance of truth to the accused’s
evidence that he stole the gold chain a few days before the fateful incident
and pawned it at PW5’s jewellery shop between 12pm to 2pm on
13 December 2013 and that he did not go to the deceased’s house on the day
she was murdered.
[17] The prosecution case is, in our judgment, pregnant with manifest
flaws, gaps and doubts which the defence had successfully laid bare. Relying
on the highest case authority in the judgment of the Federal Court in
Magendran Mohan v. PP [2011] 1 CLJ 805, we would say that “before
accusing an innocent person of the commission of a grave crime like the one
punishable under s. 302 PC, an honest sincere and dispassionate investigation
has to be made” and we must feel sure that the accused alone was responsible
for committing the crime. It is plain that such doubt as found by the learned
judge in the passages quoted above is not a mere scintilla, instead, it would
not be farfetched for this court to say that the prosecution case is wholly
reliant on the circumstantial evidence which when considered in totality is
fraught and abound with reasonable doubts.
[18] That we think lets in the last remaining point which the prosecution
did not address in this appeal. It concerns the evidence of the chemist
(PW14) and the chemist report (exh. P34) prepared by her. As earlier stated,
the evidence that could be discerned from the testimony of PW14 and
exh. P34 reveals a mixed DNA profile of two contributors developed from
the blood stains on the yellow rafia string one belonging to the deceased and
the other, to an unknown person. From the two cigarette butts (exhs. P46(A)
and 47(A)), found near the door and on the staircase outside the house, a
common male DNA profile developed therefrom did not match with the
DNA profile of the accused. It belongs to an unknown male source. This
evidence indicates the presence of one unknown male individual, but not the
accused, suggesting the possibility that the accused was not at the scene of
crime and a reasonable likelihood of the presence of the said unknown male
person who could have committed the offence.
[19] The prosecution case is wholly dependent on circumstantial evidence.
Such evidence in law must be considered as a whole. In other words, not
only that the court must consider the strength of each individual evidence but
also the combined strength of this evidence so that when taken as a whole
in this particular case before us, it is strong enough to raise an inference to
connect it to a conclusion of fact that it was the accused who murdered the
deceased. The DNA evidence in this case may be of relevance and can be
relied on by the prosecution to bolster its case. We would note, anyhow, that
such reliance on the DNA evidence falls short of achieving the purpose of
bolstering the prosecution case. It on the other has weakened the prosecution



450

Current Law Journal

[2018] 6 CLJ

case creating in the process, inevitable gaps in the chain of evidence hence
casting a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. Reference in this
connection may be made to the case of PP v. Hanif Basree Abdul Rahman
[2008] 4 CLJ 1; [2008] 3 MLJ 161, wherein the Federal Court held:
[34] I have read through the judgments of the learned trial judge and the
Court of Appeal and find that the trial judge had correctly examined the
evidence adduced before him and had also correctly applied the principles
when assessing circumstantial evidence, particularly as in this case, when
there is a reasonable likelihood of the existence of another person who
could have committed the offence (see R v. Abbot [1955] 2 All ER 899 and
Public Prosecutor v. Muhamad Nasir bin Shaharuddin & Anor [1994] 2 MLJ 576.
(emphasis added).

[20] Under s. 182A of the Criminal Procedure Code, it is clearly the duty
of the court to consider all the evidence before it and it shall decide whether
the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. This is a
mandatory requirement as evident by the use of the word ‘shall’ in that
section. What it entails is that, at the end of the defence, it is incumbent on
the court to evaluate the entire evidence placed before it including the
prosecution evidence. This was exactly what the learned judge had
undertaken at the end of the defence case having considered the case of Jaafar
Ali v. PP [1999] 1 CLJ 410; [1998] 4 MLJ 406 which succinctly stated the
following useful guidelines:
It follows that in calling upon the accused to enter his defence the court
must keep an open mind as to the accuracy of the prosecution evidence
until the defence evidence has been tendered. At the close of the case for the
defence and submissions, the court must review the evidence adduced with regard to
all the elements to be proved and then decide whether the prosecution has proved the
case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. (emphasis added)

A

B

C

D

E

F

The learned judge had also relied on the case of PP v. Iskandar Mohamad Yusof
[2006] 6 CLJ 379; [2006] 5 MLJ 559 which similarly required the court to
re-evaluate the prosecution’s story at the end of the defence case.
[21] We agree with the learned judge that the prosecution had failed to
prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The defence evidence adduced
through the accused has created a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case
so much so that the circumstantial evidence relied on by the prosecution is
adversely affected and is thus rendered insufficient to prove conclusively that
it was the accused and only the accused who killed the deceased. The trite
requirement of the law is that the general burden of proof lies throughout on
the prosecution to prove beyond reasonable doubt the guilt of the accused for
the offence with which he is alleged to have committed. There is no similar
burden placed on the accused to prove his innocence to the satisfaction of the
court, the trier of fact. The maxim that the accused is presumed innocent

G

H

I



[2018] 6 CLJ

PP v. Tan Chai Hing

451

A

until proven guilty is firmly entrenched in our system of criminal justice. In
dealing with the duty of the trial court at the end of the defence case, it would
be beneficial to be reminded of the Supreme Court’s decision in Mohamad
Radhi Yaakob v. PP [1991] 3 CLJ 2073; [1991] 1 CLJ (Rep) 311 from which
the relevant excerpt is reproduced below:

B

… whenever a criminal case is decided on the basis of the truth of the
prosecution case as against the falsity of the defence story, a trial judge
must in accordance with the principle laid down in Mat v. PP [1963] 1 LNS
82 go one step further before convicting the accused by giving due
consideration as to why the defence story though could not be believed
did not raise a reasonable doubt on the prosecution case. Thus, even
though a Judge does not accept or believe the accused explanation, the
accused must not be convicted until the Court is satisfied for sufficient
reason that such explanation does not cast a reasonable doubt on the
prosecution case.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

[22] This is the threshold of proof which the prosecution is required to
discharge. For the reasons earlier given, we are in agreement with the learned
judge that it is not safe to convict the accused on the charge of murder under
s. 302 of the Penal Code and that on the contrary he ought to be acquitted.
That being the case, we come to the inevitable conclusion that this appeal
ought to be dismissed. The decision of the learned judge is affirmed.

