110

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

PP v. SYARAFI ABU
HIGH COURT MALAYA, TAIPING
MOHAMED ZAINI MAZLAN JC
[CRIMINAL TRIAL NO: 45D-01-12-2013]
8 NOVEMBER 2017
CRIMINAL LAW: Murder – Penal Code, s. 302 – Victim died due to stab wound
on neck – Ingredients for offence of murder – Whether satisfied – Whether
prosecution proved prima facie case – Whether death of victim established –
Whether victim’s death caused by injuries sustained – Whether death intentionally
caused by accused – Whether act by accused in inflicting injury on victim comes
within ambit of one or combination of limbs under s. 300 of Penal Code – Whether
defence probable – Whether prosecution proved case beyond reasonable doubt against
accused – Whether accused cast any reasonable doubt on prosecution’s case
CRIMINAL LAW: Murder – Defence – Victim died due to stab wound on neck
– Defence that victim tried to kill herself – Whether defence probable – Whether
post-mortem report supported defence’s case – Whether testimonies of witnesses in
favour of defence’s case – Whether accused’s act of running away from crime scene
connoted guilt – Whether victim’s death caused by accused – Whether stab wound
self-inflicted – Penal Code, ss. 300 & 302

A

B

C

D

E

The accused was charged with murder, an offence under s. 302 of the Penal
Code (‘the PC’). His victim (‘the deceased’) was found slumped against a
black Proton Perdana car (‘the said car’) in the middle of a highway. The
prosecution’s case revealed that the deceased told her university roommate
(‘SP7’) that she was going to meet the accused. SP7 then accompanied the
deceased and waited at the gate. The accused came in the said car and SP7
saw the deceased going inside the car and going off towards the highway.
While on his way to work, an eyewitness (‘SP5’) came across the said car
parked on the emergency lane of the highway. SP5 saw the accused dragging
the deceased, who was screaming and flailing her hands, out from the car by
pulling her hair from behind. He continued to observe through his side
mirror while on the move but decided to stop and returned back to the scene.
SP5 saw the accused going over the guard rail and going down the slope
adjoining the highway. The deceased was bleeding and lying on the road next
to the car but still breathing. About forty minutes later, the accused came
back, stepped over the deceased and took a mobile phone in the car. SP5
claimed that the accused said ‘tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?’. The
accused then attempted to climb over the guard rail but was stopped by those
who were there. The deceased succumbed to her injury and died. A
post-mortem by a forensic medical specialist (‘SP12’) disclosed that the
deceased’s death was due to a single stab wound to the front of her neck. The
deceased also had lacerations on her right elbow. SP12 concluded that
another person had caused the wound and the knife found by the police at
the scene was capable of causing the wound suffered by the deceased. The

F

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

PP v. Syarafi Abu

111

origin of the knife was answered by the testimony of the accused’s older
brother who admitted that the knife belonged to him. During the
prosecution’s case, a recording of the close circuit television camera
(‘CCTV’) installed on the highway was played. The CCTV recording showed
a male driver with a female passenger seated at the front of the said car.
Satisfied that the prosecution had successfully established a prima facie case,
the accused was called to enter his defence. In his defence, the accused
submitted that (i) he had been in a clandestine relationship with the deceased
for the past four years and he had loved the deceased; (ii) he had picked the
deceased up at her hostel and took her out for a spin; (iii) things turned sour
and escalated into an argument when the deceased called someone on her
mobile phone, claiming that the accused had taken her against her will;
(iv) the deceased then took out a knife from a box in the car and attempted
to kill herself; (v) when the said car ran out of fuel and stopped, he dragged
the deceased out by her hand and tried to take the knife from the deceased
but she managed to stab her own throat; (vi) he then threw the knife down
the slope next to the highway and, in a state of panic, ran off towards the
jungle off the highway for fear of being implicated; (vii) upon realising that
he had done nothing wrong, he decided to go back to the scene; and
(viii) he had uttered the words ‘tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?’ The
defence also called a senior consultant forensic pathologist (‘SD2’) who
opined that the deceased’s wound was self-inflicted. The main issue that
arose for the court’s determination was whether the deceased’s death was
caused by the accused or whether it was self-inflicted.
Held (finding accused guilty of murder and sentencing him to death):

F

G

H

I

(1) The relevant provision for murder is set out under s. 300 of the PC. The
prosecution would need to establish (i) the death of the victim; (ii) that
the victim’s death was caused by the injuries sustained; and (iii) that the
death was intentionally caused by the accused and the act by the accused
in inflicting the injury on the deceased comes within the ambit of one
or a combination of the limbs under s. 300 of the PC. The prosecution
had adduced credible evidence to successfully prove a prima facie case
against the accused. The deceased’s corpse was identified by her own
father. SP12 confirmed this before she conducted the autopsy on the
deceased. The findings by SP12, who had conducted the post-mortem on
the deceased, revealed that the deceased died from excessive bleeding
caused by a single stab wound to the front of her neck. Based on the facts
and the evidence, the prosecution had proved that the accused had
intentionally stabbed the deceased’s neck, resulting her to suffer a
wound that would be sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of
nature. (paras 43-46, 62 & 63)



112

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

(2) The CCTV recording showed that the deceased looked distressed. The
accused pulled the deceased’s hair to prevent her from escaping. The
angle of the deceased’s body towards the accused and the look on her
face suggested that she was in a state of distress at that point in time. The
deceased was held against her will. If the deceased had indeed called and
informed her friend that the accused held her against her will, why
would she then attempt to kill herself? A woman in distress being held
against her will, would, in all likelihood, use a weapon such as the knife
to protect herself or use it against the aggressor. (paras 79 & 81)
(3) SP5’s testimony was accepted. He was the only eyewitness that saw what
had transpired after the said car came to a stop. SP5 was able to describe
in great detail of what he had seen. SP5’s view when he rode past the
car was unobstructed. He saw the accused dragging the deceased out of
the car by her hair from behind. The laceration on the deceased’s elbow
supported this fact as it was most likely caused by her elbow grazing the
road. SP5 saw the deceased’s hands flailing when she was dragged out.
This meant that the deceased did not have the knife in her hand, contrary
to what the accused claimed. Furthermore, there was no reason for SP5
to concoct a tale to implicate the accused as he was merely a passer-by
on his way to work. (para 83)
(4) If indeed the deceased had stabbed herself in the throat, why then did
the accused run away immediately? He claimed to have panicked but
running away in panic could only connote guilt in these circumstances.
The accused ran away leaving the deceased bleeding profusely. Although
he came back claiming that he had suddenly realised that he was not at
fault and that he wanted to have a look at the deceased, his behaviour
told the opposite. He did not attend to the deceased, who was barely
alive and still bleeding. He even had the audacity to proclaim
‘tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?’ when he looked at the deceased.
This was not the behaviour of one who proclaimed love for the deceased
and one who claimed that he did not inflict the wound on her. It was
the behaviour of a ruthless man who had imposed his will on a victim.
(paras 90 & 91)
(5) The fact that the knife belonged to the accused’s brother and was in a
box in the said car meant that only the accused knew that the knife was
there, and had used the knife to stab the deceased. Although the accused
admitted to throwing the knife away to protect the deceased from further
injuring herself, it was more probable that he had thrown the knife away
in order to dispose of the murder weapon, a common act done by those
guilty of the crime. (para 93)
(6) The findings of fact supported SP12’s conclusion that the deceased’s
wound was caused by another person. The findings of SP12 were
preferred over that of SD2. Having conducted the post-mortem, SP12

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

PP v. Syarafi Abu

113

had the advantage of physically examining the deceased’s corpse. SD2,
on the other hand, merely referred to SP12’s report and the post-mortem
photographs of the deceased’s corpse. There is a huge difference between
making a finding based on an autopsy, compared to merely viewing
photographs and a report. With the former, SP12 was able to dissect and
visually inspect the deceased’s corpse, an essential requirement for a
pathologist to conduct a post-mortem. (paras 94 & 96)
(7) The cumulative effect of all the evidence led to an irresistible conclusion
that it was the accused who had stabbed the deceased, causing her to
suffer an injury which was sufficient, in the ordinary course of nature,
to cause death under s. 300(c) of the PC. The prosecution had proven
its case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused and the accused
failed to raise any reasonable doubt. (para 99)
Case(s) referred to:
Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85 FC (refd)
Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim v. PP & Another Appeal [2015] 2 CLJ 145 FC (refd)
La Ode Ardi Rasila v. PP [2015] 10 CLJ 48 CA (refd)
Mat v. PP [1963] 1 LNS 82 HC (refd)
PP v. Azilah Hadri & Anor [2015] 1 CLJ 579 FC (refd)
PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457 FC (refd)
PP v. Ramayah Ramalu & Another Appeal [2016] 8 CLJ 226 CA (refd)
Tengku Abdullah Ibni Sultan Abu Bakar & Ors v. Mohd Latiff Shah Mohd & Ors And
Other Appeals [1997] 2 CLJ 607 CA (refd)
Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab 1958 AIR 465 (refd)
Wong Swee Chin v. PP [1980] 1 LNS 138 FC (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Criminal Procedure Code, ss. 173(f), (ha), 180(1), (2), (3), (4), 182A
Evidence Act 1950, s. 8
Penal Code, ss. 300(c), 302
For the prosecution - Yusaini Amer Abdul Karim, Mohd Amril Johari & Mohd Azrul Faidz
Abdul Razak; DPPs
For the accused - Naran Singh & Muhammad Farhan Ahmad Fadzil; M/s Naran Singh
& Co

Reported by Najib Tamby
JUDGMENT
H

Mohamed Zaini Mazlan JC:
Introduction

I

[1]
Twenty-year-old Nur Syuhada binti Johari (‘Syuhada’) was found
slumped against a black Proton Perdana at around noon, in the middle of the
North-South Highway at KM 228.2 in the District of Taiping, on 2 February
2015. She was bleeding profusely from a stab wound to her throat and was
barely alive then. She died from the wound soon after.



Current Law Journal

114

[2018] 4 CLJ

[2]
The accused, Syarafi bin Abu (‘Syarafi’), was charged with the murder
of Syuhada under s. 302 Penal Code (‘PC’). The charge against him reads as
follow:
Bahawa kamu pada 2 Februari 2015 jam lebih kurang 11.55 pagi di KM
228.2 Leburaya Utara Selatan, di dalam Daerah Taiping, di dalam Negeri
Perak Darul Ridzuan, telah membunuh Nur Syuhada Binti Johari
(No KP: 950312-02-5274) dan dengan itu kamu telah melakukan suatu
kesalahan yang boleh dihukum di bawah Seksyen 302 Kanun Keseksaaan.

A

B

[3]
Syarafi pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution called
16 witnesses to prove its case.
The Prosecution’s Case
[4]
Sarah Husna binti Kamarul Bahrain (‘SP7’) was Syuhada’s roommate
at the Universiti Teknologi Mara (‘UiTM’) in Permatang Pauh. They were
also in the same course. On the fateful day, Syuhada had at around 10am
woke SP7 up, and told her that Syarafi wanted to meet and return her laptop.
He had asked Syuhada to meet him at the front gate of her hostel. SP7 knew
of Syarafi from Syuhada. SP7 and another friend, Nabila, had advised
Syuhada against it, but to no avail. To SP7’s knowledge, Syuhada was in a
relationship with someone who also studied in the same university.
[5]
Syuhada and SP7 then waited for Syarafi at the gate. Syarafi came in
a black Proton Perdana car. Syuhada then went to the car, while SP7 watched
from a short distance. Syuhada stood outside the car speaking to someone
who was in the car for about 15 minutes. She then signalled to SP7 to indicate
that she was going into the car. SP7 then saw the car going off headed towards
the highway.

C

D

E

F

[6]
SP7 was uneasy, and related the event to Nabila. They decided that
Nabila should inform Syuhada’s parents, which she did.
[7]
Johari bin Hashim (‘SP8’) was the late Syuhada’s father. Syuhada was
one of his six children. SP8 knew Syarafi, as his family lives in the same
neighbourhood. He also knew Syarafi’s parents. To SP8’s knowledge, Syarafi
and Syuhada were merely friends and nothing more. SP8 claimed that he had
in the past warned Syarafi to stop disturbing Syuhada, and that Syarafi had
relented. SP8 had also raised his displeasure with Syarafi’s parents about six
months before the incident. SP8 clearly did not think much of Syarafi.
[8]
On the day of the incident, SP8 was at work when he received a call
from his wife at around 11am. He was told that Syuhada’s friend had called,
and told her that Syarafi had taken Syuhada away. He then left for home to
pick up his wife. He had also called Syarafi’s mother while on the way home.
SP8 told Syarafi’s mother that he would not report to the police, but
demanded that she instruct Syarafi to return his daughter. She agreed.

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

PP v. Syarafi Abu

115

[9]
SP8 then called Syarafi’s mother again. He was told that Syarafi had
not picked up her calls. SP8 subsequently received a call from Syarafi’s
father. He was told that Syuhada’s life was in the balance. SP8 immediately
went to the police headquarters in Alor Setar, and asked them to check
whether there had been any report of a person stabbed on a highway. A check
was made with the Taiping police. SP8 was told that there was indeed a
report of a person stabbed, and that the victim was in a critical condition.
[10] SP8 and his wife rushed over to the hospital in Kuala Kangsar. On the
way there, SP8 received news that a parent would dread to hear. He was told
that his daughter had died.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

[11] Corporal Norlia binti Osman (‘SP1’) was on duty at the operations
room of the Taiping Police Headquarters on 2 February 2015. She received
a 999 call at 11.55am. She was informed that a woman had been stabbed at
KM 228.2 Changkat Jering headed South. She then made a radio call for a
patrol team to be sent there, and also informed the investigating officer.
[12] Corporal Yahya bin Karti (‘SP4’), and his colleague, who was on duty
in a patrol car, received instructions at around 12pm to go to the location.
Upon arrival, SP4 saw a black Proton Perdana car static in the middle of the
road, and a woman bleeding from the neck lying next to the car. Syarafi was
also there, sitting on the shoulder of the road. He arrested Syarafi, who he
said, did not resist.
[13] Md Ikbal bin Ahmad (‘SP5’), lives in Taiping and works in Ipoh. He
would ply the North-South Highway to get to work. On the day concerned,
SP5 used the highway to get to work on his motorcycle. It was a hot day,
and traffic was moderate. SP5 was cruising at a speed of 70-80 km/h. While
on the way, SP5 came across a black Proton Perdana parked on the
emergency lane of the highway at KM 228.2. The distance between the car
and him then was about 70 to 80 meters.
[14] He slowed down when overtaking the car. Syuhada was seated on the
passenger’s side, while Syarafi stood outside on the driver’s side. He saw
Syarafi dragging Syuhada out from the car by pulling her hair from behind.
He could see clearly as he was passing by the car and was about two feet
away. Syuhada, SP5 claimed, was screaming. SP5 thought they were having
an argument.
[15] SP5 slowed down and continued to observe by looking at the side
mirror of his motorcycle. He saw Syarafi dragging Syuhada to the side of the
road by going around the front of the car. SP5 had demonstrated in court
Syuhada’s hand movement when being dragged. He claimed that Syuhada
had waved her hands frantically, while being dragged by the hair from behind
by Syarafi. There was no one else at the scene.



116

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

[16] SP5 had observed all these through his side mirror while on the move.
He did not see what transpired after Syarafi had dragged Syuhada to the side
as he was too far off. However, he noticed that the car had slowly reversed
to the middle of the road, possibly due to the handbrake not being engaged.
At this point in time, SP5 stopped and returned back to the scene. He was
about one hundred meters away from the car.
[17] While moving towards the car, at a distance of about thirty feet, SP5
saw Syarafi going over the guardrail. He then saw Syarafi going down the
slope adjoining the highway. SP5 then parked his motorcycle and went over
to the car. Syuhada was lying on the road next to the car. An elderly man
was next to her and had covered her head with a cloth. SP5 claimed that
Syuhada was bleeding but still breathing. The elderly man was giving
Syuhada some water to drink, and telling her to recite some holy verses. A
small crowd had already gathered by then.
[18] About 40 minutes later, Syarafi came back. SP5 claimed that Syarafi
had stepped over Syuhada, and took a mobile phone placed next to the
handbrake in the car. SP5 claimed that Syarafi had uttered the following
words:

A

B

C

D

Tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?

[19] Syarafi, according to SP5, claimed that Syuhada was his friend, when
asked by some members of the public there. Syarafi then sat next to the
guardrail and spoke on the phone. SP5 claimed that Syarafi said the
following:

E

Pak, pak saya minta maaf.

[20] According to SP5, some members of the public began to hit and kick
Syarafi. SP5 told them to stop and let the police handle Syarafi. SP5 heard
Syarafi claiming that Syuhada had slit herself.

F

[21] Syarafi then attempted to climb over the guardrail, but was stopped by
those who were there. He was then tied up with his own belt.

G

[22] SP5 stayed on until the police arrived. An ambulance then came and
took Syuhada away. SP5 heard Syarafi telling the police that Syuhada had
thrown the knife down the slope next to the highway. SP5 then saw some
police officers and members of the public scouring the area. The knife was
eventually found.

H

[23] Haris bin Ismail (‘SP9’) worked for PLUS Malaysia Berhad, the toll
expressway operator for the North South Highway. SP9 was assigned to the
team that patrolled the Changkat Jering - Ipoh section of the North-South
Highway. SP9 and his colleague descended on the scene of the incident upon
receiving information. SP9 saw the black Proton Perdana parked in the
middle of the road. He also saw Syuhada lying at the side of the car.

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Syarafi Abu

117

[24] SP9 had taken some photos, one of which was a photo of the knife at
the place where it was found. He claimed that the knife was found down the
slope next to the highway. No one had touched the knife before he had taken
its photo. He had also taken several other photos of the scene, which showed
the position of the black Proton Perdana with Syuhada at the side being
attended to by some members of the public.
[25] Inspector Noraini binti Awang @ Ali (‘SP10’) was the assigned crime
scene investigator. She arrived at the scene at about 3.30pm and had
collected and marked the items deemed as evidence, one of which was the
knife. SP10 had described the knife as a ‘Rambo’ type, with the words
‘9 regimental D’Assaultoparacaduisti ColMorschin’ engraved on it.
Although the knife had bloodstains on it, SP10 did not take any swabs of the
bloodstains. It was the chemist’s job, according to her.
[26] Hazwani binti Hapiz (‘SP13’), worked as a chemist in the Department
of Chemistry Malaysia. She had attempted to obtain DNA samples of the
bloodstains on the knife, but was unsuccessful, as due to the high temperature
and humidity, bacteria had already degraded the blood.
[27] The origin of the knife was answered by the testimony of Syarafi’s
older brother, Shahrul bin Abu (‘SP14’). Syarafi had worked for him as a
cook. Syarafi had asked for his permission to go back to his hometown in
Kedah, and that he had allowed Syarafi to use his brother-in-law’s car, which
was the black Proton Perdana with the registration number BFA 5087
(‘the car’). Syarafi had left at around 3am on the day of the incident. SP14
had identified the knife (exh. P39A) found at the scene, and said that it
belonged to him. He was certain, as the knife had his name engraved on it,
and that he had used it when he served in Lebanon with the United Nations
and Royal Medical Corps of the Royal Malaysian Army.
[28] Dr Suaran Singh (‘SP15’), a forensic psychiatrist with Hospital
Bahagia Ulu Kinta in Tanjung Rambutan, had as instructed, examined Syarafi
to determine his mental health. SP15 had prepared a report. In essence,
Syarafi was certified to be of sound mind during the incident, and was also
fit to stand trial.
[29] Dr Siti Zanariah binti Md Naziri (‘SP12’) was the forensic medical
specialist attached to the Forensic Department of the Permaisuri Bainun
Hospital in Ipoh. SP12 conducted the post-mortem on Syuhada on the same
day that she died. Her findings revealed that Syuhada had a single stab wound
to the front of her neck, which severed the carotid artery. The wound was
six centimetres deep. SP12 concluded that the stab wound was sufficient to
have caused Syuhada death, as it had caused her to bleed excessively.
[30] SP12 also concluded that another person had caused the wound, and
that the stab pattern would have been different, had Syuhada attempted to kill
herself. SP12 also noted that Syuhada had lacerations on her right elbow, and
postulated that it was caused when Syuhada fell backwards on the road.



118

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

[31] SP12 was shown the knife found at the scene. She testified that the
knife is capable of causing the wound suffered by Syuhada. Under
cross-examination, it was suggested to SP12 that the wound was
self-inflicted, in that Syuhada had used the knife to kill herself, as there was
only one wound. SP12 disagreed. SP12 stated that a person who committed
suicide with a knife, would normally slash the neck or hand, and that there
would be multiple wounds and not just one. SP12 went on to explain that
the person committing suicide would stab himself superficially first, before
making the final thrust.
[32] Abdul Nasir bin Ibrahim (‘SP11’), an Executive Manager of PLUS,
was tasked with the management of the close circuit television cameras
(‘CCTV’) installed on the highways managed by PLUS. According to SP11,
each toll station has a static CCTV installed. The recording captured by each
CCTV would be stored in the hard disc of each toll plaza for thirty days, after
which it would be automatically deleted.
[33] The investigating officer for this case, ASP Rahimi bin Abd Rahman
(‘SP16’), had asked SP11 for the recordings made by the CCTV at the Juru
toll plaza on 2 February 2015. SP11 had copied to a hard disc the recording
captured for lane no 3 at the Juru toll plaza from the time 10:57.20am dated
2 February 2015. The recording was played in court during the trial.
[34] SP11 had described the scene played in court. The recording showed
a male driver with a female passenger seated at the front in a black Proton
Perdana with the plate number BFA 5087. The car had entered a lane where
the ticket would be given manually. SP11 while viewing the recording
described that the male driver was seen pulling the female passenger’s hair
while exiting the lane at 10:57:34am.
[35] SP16 had gone to the scene on the day concerned at around 1.15pm.
The scene had already been secured by the Taiping police officers and PLUS
personnel by the time he arrived. The PLUS personnel had already moved
the car to the emergency lane, so as not to impede traffic. Syuhada had
already been taken to the hospital. Syarafi too had been taken away to the
Taiping police station. While SP16 was overseeing the work done by the
police’s forensic personnel, he was informed by the Kuala Kangsar Hospital
that Syuhada had passed away.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

[36] SP16 had in his investigation, discovered that the car was registered
in Syarafi’s brother-in-law’s name. He also discovered that the car had run
out of fuel, which explained why it had stopped at KM 228.2. SP16 had also
taken a cautioned statement from Syarafi (exh. D48). Syarafi’s counsel
tendered this statement during the course of SP16’s cross-examination.

H

[37] Syarafi had in his statement, claimed that he had a relationship with
Syuhada, although it was disapproved by her parents. He had on the day
concerned gone to meet Syuhada, as he heard that Syuhada was seeing
someone else. Syuhada had agreed to follow him in the car, but things went

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

PP v. Syarafi Abu

119

awry when they got into an argument after Syuhada had called someone
claiming that she was held against her will. Syarafi claimed that Syuhada
wanted to jump out of the car, and that he decided to drive fast to avoid her
from doing that.
[38] Syarafi also claimed that Syuhada had grabbed the knife in the car and
threatened to kill herself, and that was when the car ran out of fuel. He then
pulled Syuhada out, and told her to do it outside the car. He managed to
wrest the knife away from Syuhada, and was shocked to see that she was
bleeding. He admitted throwing the knife away, and that he had run away
in panic. He also admitted coming back to the car after regaining his
composure, and that he had indeed uttered the words “tak mampus lagi ka”,
while taking his mobile phone from the car as it was ringing. In gist, Syarafi
claimed that Syuhada had taken her own life.
[39] I had during the course of the trial, visited the site of the incident
together with counsel for the prosecution and Syarafi. SP5 had also
accompanied us. SP5 had shown the areas that he had described in his
testimony, namely the spot where the car was situated, and the surrounding
area, including the area where the knife was found. I must add, that visiting
the scene of an incident should be greatly encouraged. It gives the trier of fact
a 3-dimension appreciation of the scene, and a better appreciation of the
evidence given during the trial.
The Court’s Duty At The End Of The Prosecution’s Case

F

[40] It is the court’s primary task to consider and decide, whether the
prosecution has made out a prima facie case against the accused, at the end
of the prosecution’s case; s. 173(f) and s. 180(1) Criminal Procedure Code
(‘CPC’). The prosecution bears the burden to establish that they have made
out a prima facie case against the accused, before the accused can be called
to enter his defence, failing which, the accused must be acquitted; s. 180(2)
and (3) CPC.

G

[41] A prima facie case is made out when the prosecution has successfully
adduced sufficient evidence, to prove each and every single ingredient of the
offence alleged, which if not rebutted or unexplained, will result in
conviction; s. 180 CPC, Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85; [2005] 2 MLJ
301 (FC).

H

[42] It is also obligatory for a trial court, to undertake a positive and
maximum evaluation of the prosecution’s evidence. This involves an
assessment of the prosecution’s witnesses, and the inferences drawn from the
admission of the prosecution’s evidence. If there are more than one
inferences drawn, then the inference that is favourable to the accused must
be preferred; PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457; [2005] 6 MLJ
393.

I



Current Law Journal

120

[2018] 4 CLJ

Findings Of The Prosecution’s Case

A

The Elements Of The Charge
[43] The punishment for murder is death; s. 302 PC. The relevant
provision for murder is set out under s. 300 of the Penal Code, which
provides as follows:

B

300. Murder
Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder:
(a) if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention
of causing death;

C

(b) if it is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the
offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to
whom the harm is caused;
(c) if it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any
person, and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in
the ordinary course of nature to cause death; or
(d) if the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently
dangerous that it must in all probability cause death, or such bodily
injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any
excuse for incurring the risk of causing death, or such injury as
aforesaid.

[44]

D

E

The prosecution would need to establish the following elements:

(a) The death of the victim;
(b) That the victim’s death was caused by the injuries sustained; and

F

(c) That the death was intentionally caused by the accused, and that the act
by the accused in inflicting the injury on the deceased comes within the
ambit of one or a combination of the limbs under s. 300 PC.
I shall now analyse the prosecution’s case.
G

The Death Of Syuhada
[45] Syuhada’s corpse was identified by her own father, SP8. The
pathologist, SP12, confirmed this, before she conducted the autopsy on
Syuhada. There are no disputes raised, and I find that this ingredient has been
proven.

H

That The Victim’s Death Was Caused By The Injuries Sustained
[46] The findings by the pathologist, SP12, who had conducted the
post-mortem on Syuhada, revealed that Syuhada had died from excessive
bleeding, caused by a single stab wound to the front of her neck. The stab,

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

PP v. Syarafi Abu

121

which was six centimetres deep, had severed the carotid artery on the right
side of her neck. SP12 surmised that the stab wound was caused by a sharp
and flat object. It is my finding that the prosecution has also proven this
second ingredient.
That The Death Was Intentionally Caused By The Act Of The Accused Which
Comes Within The Ambit Of s. 300 PC
[47] From the evidence led by the prosecution, their case is premised on
an offence under s. 300(c) PC. The much often-cited authority on this
particular section is the Indian case of Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab [1958]
AIR 465, which has been frequently cited by our courts. The judgment is
most illuminating, which is as follows:
First, it must establish, quite objectively, that a bodily injury is present;
Secondly, the nature of the injury must be proved. These are purely
objective investigations;

D

Thirdly, it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that
particular bodily injury, that is to say, that it was not accidental or
unintentional, or that some other kind of injury was intended.
Once these three elements are proved to be present, the enquiry proceeds
further and,

E

F

G

H

I

Fourthly, it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made
up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the
ordinary course of nature. This part of the enquiry is purely objective and
inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
Once these four elements are established by the prosecution (and, of
course, the burden is on the prosecution throughout) the offence is
murder under s. 300 ‘thirdly’. It does not matter that there was no
intention to cause death. It does not matter that there was no intention
even to cause an injury of a kind that is sufficient to cause death in the
ordinary course of nature (not that there is any real distinction between
the two). It does not even matter that there is no knowledge that an act
of that kind will be likely to cause death. Once the intention to cause the
bodily injury actually found to be present is proved, the rest of the enquiry
is purely objective and the only question is whether, as a matter of purely
objective inference, the injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature
to cause death. No one has a licence to run around inflicting injuries that
are sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and claim
that they are not guilty of murder. If they inflict injuries of that kind, they
must face the consequences; and they can only escape if it can be shown,
or reasonably deduced, that the injury was accidental or otherwise
unintentional. (p 467)

[48] It is the prosecution’s case that Syarafi had murdered Syuhada, which
is of course denied by Syarafi. There are no eye-witnesses that saw Syarafi
murdering Syuhada. The prosecution’s case rests on circumstantial evidence.



122

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

[49] The Federal Court in PP v. Azilah Hadri & Anor [2015] 1 CLJ 579, held
that there is no distinction between circumstantial and direct evidence, and
that circumstantial evidence alone may be sufficient for a conviction,
provided that:
(a) The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn has
been established;

A

B

(b) The established facts are consistent with the hypothesis of guilt; and
(c) The circumstances must be conclusive and the chain of evidence
complete so that it excludes any conclusion of the accused’s innocence.
[50] The prosecution referred to several factors, one of which was the fact
that Syarafi was the last person seen with Syuhada before she suffered the
injury that led to her death. On the day concerned, Syuhada had told her
roommate, SP7, that Syarafi had called and wanted to meet her. Syuhada
then came down from her hostel to meet someone who came in the car. She
then got into the car, which then went towards the highway. SP7 then got
her friend Nabila to inform Syuhada’s father, SP8. After a series of telephone
calls to among others Syarafi’s mother, SP8 was informed of the unfortunate
news pertaining to Syuhada. He was informed that Syuhada had been stabbed
in an incident on the highway.
[51] The car that Syarafi used, belonged to SP14’s brother-in-law. This
very same car was recorded going through the Juru toll plaza at 10:57.20am
as evidenced by the CCTV recordings tendered through SP11.
[52] SP5 who lives in Taiping, was on his way to Ipoh for work on that
day. He was on his motorcycle using the North-South Highway, when he
came across the car at KM 228.2. The car was in the middle of the road, as
it had run out of fuel as testified by SP16. What SP5 saw then was crucial.
He saw Syuhada, who was seated at the front passenger seat, being dragged
out by Syarafi who stood outside the car on the driver’s side. Syarafi had
dragged Syuhada out by pulling her hair. She was screaming and frantically
waving her hands. She had fell down on her back and was being dragged by
Syarafi to the left side of the car. SP5 then turned around to get to the car.
He then saw Syarafi crossing over the guardrail and went down the slope
adjacent to the highway. SP5 then went over to Syuhada who was slumped
on the left side of the car. She was bleeding profusely from the neck. SP5
did not see what had caused Syuhada to bleed. Syarafi then came back to the
scene about 40 minutes later. He took a look at Syuhada and exclaimed
“tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?”, while stepping over her to retrieve
a mobile phone in the car. He then attempted to go down the slope next to
the highway, but was stopped by the members of the public, who had
descended upon the scene.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Syarafi Abu

123

[53] Based on the evidence, it is clear that Syarafi was the last person with
Syuhada. The events related by the prosecution’s witnesses show that Syarafi
had picked Syuhada up from her hostel with the car. He then drove to the
North-South Highway headed South, passing through the Juru toll plaza. The
female seen seated next to the male driver in the CCTV recording, although
not identified through any of the witnesses, could only be Syuhada. The car
that both Syarafi and Syuhada were in then came to a stop at KM 228.2 as
it had run out of fuel.
[54] What SP5 saw was crucial. Syuhada was clearly in a state of despair,
as she was dragged out of the car by the hair, while screaming and waving
her hands frantically. The lacerations on Syuhada’s elbow as testified by
SP12, supports SP5’s contention that she was dragged to the ground on her
back from behind. In that moment when she was dragged out to the left side
of the car, SP5 did not see what had happened. However, SP5 who had
immediately turned back to the car, saw that Syuhada was bleeding profusely
from the neck. The fact that Syarafi was the only one there and had acted
violently against Syuhada, points irresistibly to only one conclusion: that he
was the only one that could have stabbed Syuhada in the throat using the
knife that belonged to his brother.
[55] Syarafi’s act when he came back to the scene is most damning. To have
uttered the chilling words of “tak mampus lagikah perempuan ini?” could
only mean that he had felt no remorse or compassion towards Syuhada. SP5
had also heard Syarafi talking on his mobile phones saying “Pak, pak saya
minta maaf”. His remorsefulness could only be due to what he had done to
Syuhada.
[56] If Syarafi’s statement to the police is to be believed, in that Syuhada
had stabbed herself, then it would have only been reasonable to expect
Syarafi to at the very least attend to her. He could have called for assistance
by calling for medical aid, or stopped anyone driving past. He did none of
these. Instead, he fled and came back later merely to retrieve his mobile
phone. These are relevant conducts to take into consideration under s. 8
Evidence Act 1950.
[57] I also accept SP12’s testimony, that the wound could have only been
caused by another person, in that the stab pattern would have been different,
had Syuhada attempted to kill herself. I also find that the wound inflicted on
Syuhada goes to show that Syarafi had every intention to cause death. To
thrust a knife into the throat, which is a vulnerable part, causing a wound
six centimetres deep, could only mean that Syarafi had inflicted the wound
intentionally, and that it was inflicted with the intention of causing bodily
injury on Syuhada.



Current Law Journal

124

[2018] 4 CLJ

[58] Abdul Rahman Sebli JCA, who delivered judgment for the Court of
Appeal in La Ode Ardi Rasila v. PP [2015] 10 CLJ 48 (CA) had this to say:

A

A man who intentionally shoots another at a vital part of his body must
be presumed to intend his death unless he could prove that his act fell
under any of the general exceptions in the Penal Code.

[59] As for the injury suffered by Syuhada, I find that the injury was
sufficient in the ordinary course of nature, to cause death under s. 300(c) PC
based on SP12’s testimony. It is immaterial whether Syarafi knew that the
injury suffered by Syuhada, carried a high possibility of causing death to her.
It is also immaterial whether Syarafi intended to cause death to satisfy the
provisions of s. 300(c) PC; PP v. Ramayah Ramalu & Another Appeal [2016]
8 CLJ 226; [2016] 5 MLJ 355 (CA).
[60] The knife found on the slope adjacent to the highway that belonged to
Syarafi’s brother was most likely the weapon used to stab Syuhada, as SP12
had testified that the knife could cause the wound suffered. The fact that it
was thrown away could only mean that Syarafi had attempted to dispose of
it.
[61] I therefore find Syarafi’s statement that Syuhada had killed herself
devoid of merits. There were no compelling reasons for her to have killed
herself. The evidence led thus far lends no credence to this assertion at all.

B

C

D

E

[62] I find that based on the facts and evidence in totality, the prosecution
has proven that Syarafi had intentionally stabbed Syuhada’s neck, resulting
her to suffer a wound that would be sufficient to cause death in the ordinary
course of nature.
Conclusion At The End Of The Prosecution’s Case
[63] Having considered all the evidence and subjecting them to maximum
evaluation, I am satisfied that the prosecution has adduced credible evidence
to successfully prove a prima facie case against Syarafi, as envisaged under
s. 180(4) CPC.

F

G

[64] I therefore called upon Syarafi to enter his defence. Pursuant to the
provisions of s. 173(ha) CPC, the three options available were explained to
him. Syarafi elected to give evidence on oath.
The Defence Case

H

[65] Syarafi claimed to have been in a relationship with Syuhada for the
past four years. It was a clandestine relationship, as he claimed that
Syuhada’s parents, who did not approve of him, had no inkling of their
relationship.
I



[2018] 4 CLJ

PP v. Syarafi Abu

125

A

[66] He admitted driving the car on the day concerned, and that he had
picked Syuhada up at her hostel using the car. He had called up Syuhada
prior to going over to her hostel, to let her know that he wanted to meet and
return her laptop. Upon meeting Syuhada at her hostel, he then asked her out
for a spin. Syuhada agreed, and went into the car willingly.

B

[67] Things however turned sour when Syuhada called someone on her
mobile phone, and claimed that Syarafi had taken her against her will. That
led to an argument. Syarafi claimed that Syuhada then attempted to jump out
of the car, and that he had drove fast to avoid her from attempting it again.

C

D

E

F

[68] Syarafi claimed that Syuhada then took out a knife from a box in the
car, and attempted to kill herself. Syarafi tried to stop her, and that it was
at this point in time that the car had run out of fuel and stopped. Syarafi then
dragged her out by her hand through the driver’s side, as the door on the
passenger’s side was blocked by the guardrail on the highway. Syarafi then
dared Syuhada to kill herself outside the car, but at the same time attempted
to grab the knife from her.
[69] Syarafi claimed to have wrested the knife from Syuhada, but that he
was too late, as Syuhada had managed to stab her own throat. Syarafi then
threw the knife down the slope next to the highway for her own safety.
Syuhada who was by then bleeding profusely from her neck, walked over to
the side of the car and collapsed. Syarafi claimed that he panicked and ran
off towards the jungle off the highway. He was afraid that he would be
implicated.
[70] Syarafi later realised that he had done nothing wrong and decided to
go back. Upon reaching the car, Syarafi saw that a crowd had gathered. He
admitted uttering the words “tak mampus lagi ka” and that his mobile phone
had at the same time rang. He also admitted crossing over Syuhada when
attempting to take his mobile phone in the car. He reiterated that he loved
Syuhada, and that he had to cross over her merely to get his mobile phone.

G

[71] The call on his mobile phone was from his brother. He told his brother
what had happened, and had apologised as he was afraid that he would be
arrested by the police. The crowd who had gathered there then started to beat
him up and that he had kept telling them that Syuhada had killed herself. He
had after being arrested, gave his statement to the police (exh. D48).

H

[72] The second witness called for the defence was Dato’ Dr Bhupinder
Singh a/l Jeswant Singh (‘SD2’). SD2’s last posting was at the Penang
General Hospital, where he had served as a Senior Consultant Forensic
Pathologist. He had been in service for 37 years. He retired in October 2016.
SD2’s credentials are impressive, judging from his curriculum vitae alone.

I



126

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

[73] SD2 had perused the post-mortem results and photographs of Syuhada.
He opined that the common parts of a body that a person committing suicide
would injure are the neck, wrist and chest area. His opinion however, was
diametrical to that of SP12. In his opinion, Syuhada’s wound was selfinflicted. SD2 however concurred with SP12’s view that a suicide victim
would normally inflict superficial wounds on the side of the neck before
going for the fatal thrust, as the victim contemplating suicide, would have
time to firstly contemplate whether to commit suicide or otherwise. In
Syuhada’s case however, SD2 opined that Syuhada had probably stabbed
herself at the spur of the moment, and that she had no time to think.
According to SD2, most victims in murder cases would have multiple
wounds on the sides of the neck, and that it is rare to find a murder victim
with a stab wound on the frontal part of the neck.
[74] SD2 concurred with SP12 that the knife found at the scene
(exh. P39A) would have caused the wound suffered by Syuhada. He also
testified that the pattern of the wound, also shows that the knife had been
thrust into Syuhada’s neck until its hilt. SD2 opined that a person who holds
a knife and stabbing himself, would move the knife inwards and laterally. In
Syuhada’s case, he was of the view that there was a struggle before Syuhada
had thrust the knife into herself, and that someone else had attempted to
block her. That resulted in the knife being thrust with great force until its hilt.
SD2 concluded by stating that the direction of the wound suggested that it
was directed medially, inwards and laterally, indicating that it was a selfinflicted wound. According to SD2, the injury would have been a slit-like
wound in murder cases.

A

B

C

D

E

Duty Of The Court At The End Of The Conclusion Of The Trial

F

[75] It is sacrosanct that an accused is presumed innocent until proven
guilty. The burden to prove an accused’s guilt lies on the prosecution
throughout the trial. An accused merely has to cast a reasonable doubt to gain
an acquittal. The procedure for the court at the end of the trial is set out under
s. 182A CPC, which provides as follows:

G

182A - Procedure at the conclusion of the trial
(1) At the conclusion of the trial, the Court shall consider all the
evidence adduced before it and shall decide whether the
prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.

H

(2) If the Court finds that the prosecution has proved its case beyond
reasonable doubt, the Court shall find the accused guilty and he
may be convicted on it.
(3) If the Court finds that the prosecution has not proved its case
beyond reasonable doubt, the Court shall record an order of
acquittal.

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

PP v. Syarafi Abu

[76] The Federal Court in PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar (supra), stated that
the following steps set out in Mat v. PP [1963] 1 LNS 82; [1963] MLJ 263
should be followed at the end of the defence case:
(a) If you are satisfied beyond reasonable
doubt as to the accused’s guilt.

Convict

(b) If you accept or believe the accused’s
explanation.

Acquit

(c) If you do not accept or believe the
accused’s explanation.

Do not convict but
consider the next
steps below.

(d) If you do not accept or believe the
accused’s explanation and that explanation
does not raise in your mind a reasonable
doubt as to his guilt.

Convict

(e) If you do not accept or believe the
accused’s explanation but nevertheless
it raises in your mind a reasonable
doubt as to his guilt.

Acquit

C

D

127

Analysis Of The Defence
E

F

G

H

I

[77] There are several aspects of this case that are undisputed. It is not
disputed that Syarafi had picked up Syuhada from her hostel at UiTM in the
car, and that they both travelled down South on the North-South Highway
passing through the Juru toll plaza. There is no evidence to suggest that
Syuhada was forced to enter the car against her will, although whether she
had consented to continue being in the car after they had left UiTM is an
issue. The fact that Syuhada’s parents were against Syarafi having any contact
with Syuhada is also undeniable. It is also undisputed that the car had run
out of fuel and stopped at KM 228.2 of the North-South Highway. That
Syuhada had died, and that the wound in her neck was caused by the knife
are also undisputed. The pertinent issue here is whether Syuhada’s death was
caused by Syarafi or whether it was self-inflicted.
[78] During the prosecution’s case, it was suggested to SP11 that Syuhada
was sleeping, and that she had rested her head on Syarafi’s shoulder when
they passed through the Juru toll plaza. When the CCTV recording at the
Juru toll plaza was played during Syarafi’s cross-examination, Syarafi, in
response to the learned Deputy Public Prosecutor’s question, gave a different
version. He claimed that Syuhada was leaning over to find something in the
car. He denied that Syuhada had rested her head on his shoulder to sleep.
[79] I have viewed the CCTV recording intently. It did not seem that
Syuhada was either resting her head on Syarafi’s shoulder to sleep, or that
she was in the midst of looking for something in the car. It seemed very clear
to me that Syuhada looked distressed. I am inclined to agree with the



128

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

prosecution’s suggestion, that Syarafi had pulled Syuhada’s hair to prevent
her from escaping. The angle of Syuhada’s body towards Syarafi, and the
look on her face suggest that Syuhada was in a state of distress at that point
in time. I am of the view that Syuhada was at that point in time held against
her will.

A

[80] The crucial issue now is what actually transpired after the car had run
out of fuel and stopped at KM 228.2 of the North-South Highway. Syarafi
contended that they had an argument prior to that, as Syuhada had called up
a friend claiming that she was held against her will. Syarafi then claimed that
Syuhada had attempted to jump out of the car, and that he then drove fast
to avoid her from jumping out. He then claimed that Syuhada took out a knife
that was in the car and attempted to kill herself.

B

[81] Many of these do not make sense. If Syuhada had indeed attempted
to jump out of the car, the reasonable thing to do was to stop the car at the
side of the highway, and attempt to resolve the issue with her, instead of
driving faster. Syarafi then claimed that Syuhada then attempted to kill
herself with the knife in the car. This does not make sense either. If Syuhada
had indeed called and informed her friend that Syarafi had held her against
her will, why would she then attempt to kill herself? A woman in distress
being held against her will, would in all likelihood use a weapon, such as a
knife, to protect herself, or use it against the aggressor.
[82] Now what transpired after the car came to a stop at KM 228.2 is the
crucial issue here. Syarafi claimed that he had pulled Syuhada out of the car,
and dared her to kill herself outside the car. He also claimed that he had at
the same time attempted to wrest away the knife from Syuhada. This is a
contradiction. Why would Syarafi attempt to wrest away the knife, when he
had firstly pulled Syuhada out and dared her to kill herself? If the knife was
indeed in Syuhada’s hand, a reasonable person would firstly attempt to wrest
away the knife from her inside the car itself, or at least try to talk her out
of it.
[83] I am also more inclined to accept the testimony of SP5. There was no
reason for him to concoct a tale to implicate Syarafi. He was merely a passerby on the way to work. He was the only eyewitness that saw what had
transpired after the car had come to a stop. SP5 was able to describe in great
detail of what he had seen. SP5’s view when he rode past the car was
unobstructed. He saw Syarafi dragging Syuhada out of the car by her hair
from behind. The laceration on Syuhada’s elbow supports this fact, as it was
most likely caused by her elbow grazing the road. SP5 saw Syuhada’s hands
flailing when she was dragged out. This meant that Syuhada did not have the
knife in her hand, contrary to what Syarafi had claimed.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

PP v. Syarafi Abu

[84] SP5 admitted that he did not see what had caused Syuhada to bleed
from her neck when he had turned around and approached the car.
Nevertheless, there was no one else next to Syuhada at that material time
except for Syarafi. The crucial issue here is whether Syuhada had killed
herself by thrusting the knife into her throat, or whether it was Syarafi who
had thrust the knife into Syuhada’s throat.
[85] SP12, the pathologist that conducted the post-mortem on Syuhada,
came to the conclusion that her wound was caused by another person based
on the pattern of the wound. Her findings were of course challenged by the
defence counsel, who suggested that the wound was self-inflicted. SP12 had
also stated that a person committing suicide with a knife would normally slit
her throat or hand, and that there would be multiple incisions, and not only
one, like in Syuhada’s case. SP12 also testified that a person committing
suicide would normally have superficial or ‘testing’ wounds, as she would
firstly ‘test’ the area concerned.
[86] SP12’s findings were in direct contrast to that of the defence’s expert
witness, SD2, who was adamant that Syuhada had killed herself. Unlike
SP12 however, SD2 did not have the opportunity to conduct the
post-mortem on Syuhada. SD2 was nevertheless certain of his opinion based
on his many years of experience, even though he had only viewed the postmortem photographs and SP12’s report. Although SD2 had frowned upon
SP12’s use of the phrase ‘testing’ wounds, he nevertheless agreed that a
person committing suicide would have what he phrased as ‘tentative
wounds’. The relevant part of SD2’s examination-in-chief is reproduced
below:

F

6. S: In this particular case also, the pathologist who conducted the postmortem has given evidence to this effect, she has said this: “Before
a victim stabbed herself, she would inflict superficial or testing
wounds.” First of all, is there such thing as testing wound in
medical term?

G

J: This is the first time I am hearing of the word testing wounds.
Normally we use the terminology as tentative wounds. As I was
saying earlier, they would like to attempt and give very superficial
wounds on the side of the neck and then they would go on for the
final slit of the throat.

H

7. S: The scenario given by the pathologist is that the victim would first
inflict superficial wounds and then inflict the stab wound. This is
what she said. Do you agree that this situation would only apply
where the victim is alone, example in a room, or somewhere all
alone, and there is nobody around, only then the victim would
inflict to themselves superficial or tentative wounds and when not
successful, only then he or she may go for the fatal stabs. Do you
agree with me?

I

129



130

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

J: Yes. It is possible that the person sitting alone as I mentioned earlier
will contemplate as to whether he or she would want to commit
suicide, and have these tentative wounds before stabbing herself or
himself.

[87] SP12 and SD2 are both experts, although the latter undoubtedly
possesses more experience than the former, at least by virtue of the number
of years that he was in service. In evaluating expert witnesses, it is not a
contest of who is the better expert. It is a question of whose findings or
opinion is the preferred one. The Court of Appeal in Tengku Abdullah Ibni
Sultan Abu Bakar & Ors v. Mohd Latiff Shah Mohd & Ors And Other Appeals
[1997] 2 CLJ 607; [1996] 2 MLJ 265 at 322, held that a trial judge has the
discretion to prefer the opinion of one expert over the other where their
opinions differ.
[88] The primary function of an expert is to assist the court, given the
expert’s field of expertise that a judge may not possess. Nevertheless, it is the
sacrosanct role of a judge to make the finding of fact. In Wong Swee Chin v.
PP [1980] 1 LNS 138; [1981] 1 MLJ 212, Raja Azlan Shah CJ (as His
Highness then was) who delivered judgment for the Federal Court elucidated
this function as follows:
Our system of jurisprudence does not generally speaking, remit the
determination of dispute to experts. Some questions are left to the robust
good sense of a jury. Others are resolved by the conventional wisdom of
a judge sitting alone. In the course of elucidating disputed questions, aids
in the form of expert opinions are in appropriate cases placed before juries
or judges. But, except on purely scientific issues, expert evidence is to be
used by the court for the purpose of assisting rather than compelling the
formulation of the ultimate judgments. In the ultimate analysis it is the
tribunal of fact, whether it be a judge or jury, which is required to weigh
all the evidence and determine the probabilities. It cannot transfer this
task to the expert witness, the court must come to its own opinion. (p 214)

It would in my opinion, be more prudent to analyse the facts exhaustively
without solely relying on the findings of SP12 or SD2.
[89] Syarafi claimed that he was in a relationship with Syuhada, albeit he
readily admitted that it was one that was not approved by the parents.
Nevertheless, he maintained that he loved and cared deeply for Syuhada. If
that was indeed the case, and if one were to believe his testimony that he had
attempted to stop Syuhada from killing herself, then why did he run away?
A person who loved another would firstly do his best to firstly talk the other
person from committing suicide. He would never dare her to kill herself,
which was the case here with Syarafi, who even dragged Syuhada out of the
car daring her to do it outside the car.
[90] If indeed Syuhada had stabbed herself in the throat, why then did
Syarafi run away immediately? He claimed to have panicked, but running
away in panic can only connote guilt in these circumstances. If he had indeed

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2018] 4 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Syarafi Abu

131

cared for her, he should have then immediately gone to her aid. Syarafi could
have stopped someone and asked for help, or call for an ambulance. After
all, his mobile phone was in the car. Instead, Syarafi ran away leaving
Syuhada bleeding profusely.
[91] Although Syarafi had come back claiming that he had suddenly
realised that he was not at fault, and that he wanted to have a look at
Syuhada, his behaviour tells the opposite. Firstly, he did not attend to
Syuhada, who was barely alive and still bleeding. Instead, he chose to answer
his mobile phone, which was ringing. He even had the audacity to proclaim
“tak mampus lagi ka” when he looked at Syuhada. This is not the behaviour
of one who proclaimed love for Syuhada, and one who claimed that he did
not inflict the wound on her. Conversely, it is the behaviour of a ruthless man
who had imposed his will on a victim.
[92] Although Syuhada may have willingly followed Syarafi initially, that
willingness had ceased sometime during the journey. The CCTV recording
at the Juru toll plaza showed her in distress held against her will. The fact
that Syarafi drove fast, could only mean that he did not want her to try and
escape. The fact that he was seen by SP5 pulling Syuhada’s hair and dragging
her out from the right side of the car when she was seated on the left side,
is evident of a wicked man who had every intention to harm Syuhada. The
abrasions on Syuhada’s elbow supports the fact that she had fell down on the
road when being dragged by Syarafi.
[93] The fact that the knife belonged to Syarafi’s brother and was in a box
in the car as he claimed, meant that only he knew that the knife was there,
and had used the knife to stab Syuhada when they were outside the car.
Syarafi had also admitted throwing the knife away, that was eventually found
on the slope adjoining the highway. Although Syarafi claimed to have thrown
away the knife to protect Syuhada from further injuring herself, I find that
it is more probable that Syarafi had thrown the knife away in order to dispose
of the murder weapon, a common act done by those who are guilty of the
crime.
[94] I would prefer to accept the findings of SP12 as opposed to SD2. SP12
had conducted the post-mortem. She had the advantage of physically
examining Syuhada’s corpse. SD2 on the other hand, had merely referred to
SP12’s report and the post-mortem photographs of Syuhada’s corpse. There
is a huge difference between making a finding based on an autopsy, compared
to merely viewing photographs and a report. With the former, SP12 was able
to dissect and visually inspect Syuhada’s corpse, an essential requirement for
a pathologist to conduct a post-mortem. With the greatest of respect to SD2,
I do not think that his wealth of experience can compensate the fact that he
did not conduct the autopsy on Syuhada unlike SP12. There is a big



132

Current Law Journal

[2018] 4 CLJ

difference between an analysis done physically and visually. When it comes
to the human anatomy, I have no doubt that the findings based on the former
are to be preferred over the latter.
[95] The Federal Court in Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim v. PP & Another Appeal
[2015] 2 CLJ 145; [2015] 2 MLJ 293 (FC) concurred with the Court of
Appeal which overruled the High Court’s findings pertaining to the expert
witnesses of the prosecution and defence. The High Court had held that the
findings of the two expert witnesses of the defence had cast a reasonable
doubt on the prosecution’s case. The Court of Appeal disagreed. The Federal
Court in agreeing with the Court of Appeal, held that the appellate court was
right in rejecting the evidence of the two expert witnesses for the defence, as
they had not done any test on the samples, but had merely interpreted and
made observations of the prosecution’s two expert witnesses findings, who
as opposed to them, had personally carried out the DNA analysis on the
samples.
[96] Similarly in this case, I would prefer the findings of SP12. In any
event, my preference on SP12’s findings is also based on the findings of fact
that I had set out in the preceding paragraphs. These findings support SP12’s
conclusion that Syuhada’s wound was caused by another person.
[97] Furthermore, there are simply no reasons to support the proposition
that Syuhada had killed herself by stabbing her neck with the knife. She was
furthering her studies in UiTM, was loved by her family, and was also in a
relationship with a fellow student studying in the same campus. None of the
witnesses had ever provided any reasons or theory, to support the
proposition that Syuhada had reasons to kill herself.

A

B

C

D

E

F

[98] In fact, if Syuhada was really inclined to take her life, she could have
easily jumped out of the car when Syarafi drove at high speed. If she had
known of the knife in the car, she could have easily attempted to kill herself
before the car came to a stop when it had run out of fuel. I therefore reject
the defence’s proposition that Syuhada’s death was her own doing.

G

Conclusion
[99] In this case, the cumulative effect of all the evidence leads to an
irresistible conclusion that it was Syarafi who had stabbed Syuhada, causing
her to suffer an injury which was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature
to cause death under s. 300(c) PC. It is this court’s finding, that the
prosecution has proven its case beyond reasonable doubt against Syarafi, and
that he has failed to raise any reasonable doubt.
[100] I therefore find Syarafi guilty of the murder of Syuhada under s. 302
PC, and sentenced him to death by hanging.

H

I

