[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MALAYA AT IPOH
IN THE STATE OF PERAK DARUL RIDZUAN, MALAYSIA
[CRIMINAL TRIAL NO: 45B-2-03/2016 & 45B-3-03/2016]

BETWEEN

PUBLIC PROSECUTOR

AND

1) SARAVANAN RAJAGOPAL
2) GANESAN KUPUSAMY
CRIMINAL

LAW:

Murder

-

Section

302

of

Penal

Code

-

Circumstantial evidence - Common intention - Deceased slashed with
intention of causing him death - Whether murder was perpetrated in
furtherance of common intention of accused persons to commit
murder - Whether prosecution had established a prima facie case
against accused persons
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Defence - Denial - Murder with common
intention - Accused persons gave two different versions pertaining to
events that took place on day of murder - Accused persons were
unreliable and untrustworthy witnesses - Evidence of accused persons
conflicted with one another - Unsatisfactory features in testimony of
accused persons - Whether testimony of accused persons were
consistent with their innocence - Whether defence created a
reasonable doubt on prosecution's case
1



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[Accused persons were found guilty and sentenced to death.]
Case(s) referred to:
Adiswaran Tharumaputrintar v. PP & Other Appeals [2014] 3 CLJ
813 FC (refd)
Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85 FC (refd)
Duis Akim & Ors v. PP [2013] 9 CLJ 692 FC (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Criminal Procedure Code, s. 277
Penal Code, ss. 34, 302

JUDGMENT
[1]

The first accused, Saravanan a/l Rajagopal, and the second accused,
Ganesan a/l Kupusamy, were charged on separate dates with the
murder of one Gobinanthan a/l Kumaravellu (“the deceased”) under
section 302 of the Penal Code read with section 34. As the charges
against them were identical, it would suffice to set out only the
charge against the first accused:
“Bahawa kamu, bersama-sama (1) rakan bernama Ganesan a/l
Kupusamy No. 7000217-08-5293 pada 05 Julai 2015 jam
lebih kurang 12.00 tengahari hingga 1.00 petang di belakang
Restoran Nashmeer, Laluan Klebang Restu 2, Medan Klebang
Restu, Chemor Ipoh Perak, dalam Daerah Kinta di dalam
Negeri Perak Darul Ridzuan, telah melakukan pembunuhan
dengan menyebabkan kematian ke atas Gobinathan a/l
Kumaravellu No. K.P 710905-08-6221 dan oleh yang
demikian, kamu telah melakukan satu kesalahan yang boleh

2



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

dihukum dibawah Seksyen 302 Kanun Keseksaan dan dibaca
bersama Seksyen 34 Kanun yang sama.”
[2]

On the application of the learned deputy public prosecutor, the
charges against the both accused were heard together.

Case for the Prosecution
[3]

The prosecution called 7 witnesses to prove their case. The
prosecution evidence was that on 5 July 2015, the first and second
accused were at Nasmir restaurant (“restaurant”) in Klembang
Restu, Ipoh, together with Kesavan Gurappan (“Kesavan”) (PW1)
and Anberson Mathiyalagan (“Anberson”) (PW2). The restaurant
operated at the end lot of a row of shop houses. Around 12 noon,
that day, the deceased was viciously slashed to death at the back
lane of this restaurant.

[4]

The prosecution relied solely on the testimony of Kesavan and
Anberson to establish the identity of the assailants who had
murdered the deceased.

[5]

Kesavan testified that on the morning of 5 July 2015, he picked up
the first accused from the latter’s house at Tanjung and proceeded
to Klebang Restu. He picked up the first accused using his
motorcycle bearing registration number AJE 2672 and took him to
the restaurant. Whilst they were there, he received a phone call
from the second accused who asked to picked up from a petrol
station 5 minutes away from the restaurant. He did so. They were at
the restaurant to meet a scrap metal dealer. According to Kesavan,
he had met the first accused only about one month before the
incident, whereas he and the second accused had been friends for
about a year before the incident.

[6]

They were later joined by Kesavan’s friend Anberson whom he had
telephoned to meet him at the restaurant. The four of them sat at a
3



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

table in front of the restaurant. Kesavan then observed his former
employer, the deceased, circling the area near the restaurant in a
white Waja. A little later, the deceased was seen again but this time
he was riding a motorcycle. At this juncture, the first accused
borrowed Kesavan’s motorcycle and left the restaurant with the
second accused.
[7]

About 10 minutes later, the accused persons came back to the
restaurant. Kesavan noticed a badminton bag in the carrier of his
motorcycle. The deceased was seen entering a hardware shop a few
shops away from the restaurant. The first and second accused left
the restaurant again on his motorcycle in the direction of the
hardware shop. Shortly thereafter, Kesavan saw the deceased
running into the restaurant shouting “tolong, tolong” and was
pursued by the first accused wielding a knife with a long blade. The
deceased exited the restaurant through the back door into the back
lane. Kesavan saw the second accused riding his motorcycle and go
past the restaurant towards the back lane.

[8]

Kesavan said that he, Anberson and the others who were in the
restaurant rushed to the back lane to see what was happening. He
saw the first accused strike two blows on the deceased’s hand with
the knife, whilst the second accused sat on the motorcycle and
watched the attack. Kesavan added that he and Anberson panicked
and left the restaurant within 5 minutes of the incident and
proceeded to Anberson’s house at Sungai Siput.

[9]

According to Kesavan, that night, the first and the second accused
came to Anberson’s house and compelled him to follow them to the
first accused’s house in Tanjung. Kesavan stayed at the first
accused’s house for about 3 weeks and did not see the second
accused after that night.

4



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[10] Continuing with his testimony, Kesavan said that the first accused
found a buyer and sold his (Kesavan’s) motorcycle after the
incident. The first accused informed him that it had to be sold as it
was evidence that could implicate him with the murder of the
deceased. Kesavan left the first accused’s house for Rawang after 3
weeks without informing anyone.
[11] Kesavan was arrested by the police on 17 August 2015 at the Ipoh
railway station when he returned to Ipoh on the advice of his
parents. He said he returned as a close relative of the family had
been arrested in connection with this case.
[12] Kesavan was subjected to lengthy cross examination by counsel for
the first accused. He admitted in cross examination that 3 weeks
prior to the murder of the deceased, an incident had taken place at
Indah Water Seri Klebang where he worked as a security guard for
the deceased. The first and second accused had come there to visit
him but this angered the deceased. The deceased parked his car in
front of the second accused’s lorry to block him from entering the
place. The first and second accused and a few others reacted by
smashing the deceased’s car windscreen and the deceased escaped
by running out of his car. The deceased blamed him for the incident
and terminated him a few days later.
[13] The main thrust of the cross-examination by counsel for the first
accused throughout was that the first accused was not involved in
the murder of the deceased. It was put to Kesavan that the deceased
was slashed by Anberson and him. It was also put to Kesavan that
he was at the restaurant that day to meet the deceased whom he had
earlier messaged to meet him there. It was also put to him that his
intention that day was to exact revenge as the deceased had fired
him from his job as a security guard recently for being involved in
drug activities. Kesavan denied all these allegations.

5



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[14] It was further put to Kesavan by counsel for the first accused that
he had brought a knife to the restaurant and had asked Anberson to
come meet him there to help him attack the deceased. It was lastly
put to Kesavan that he had confessed to one Anand that he had
slashed the deceased to death. Kesavan again denied all the
allegations.
[15] Counsel for the second accused, did not cross examine Kesavan at
length. Kesavan was merely asked to confirm that the second
accused was seated on the motorcycle when the deceased was being
slashed.
[16] Anberson corroborated Kesavan’s evidence that it was the first
accused who slashed the deceased and that the second accused
watched the incident, seated on the motorcycle. Anberson said the
deceased was his friend’s father. I pause here to observe that
though the first accused had in cross examination put to Kesavan
that it was he and Anberson who had jointly slashed the deceased,
this suggestion was, however, not put to Anberson. Instead, it was
put to him that it was Kesavan who had slashed the deceased, and
his testimony implicating the first accused was not true as he was
improbable he could have witnessed the incident as the restaurant
was full of people at the time. Anberson vehemently denied this.
[17] It bears mention that after the evidence of Anberson, counsel for
the first accused, Mr. Ranjit Singh, for no apparent reason,
discharged himself, and was replaced by Mr. M. Saravanan.
[18] The prosecution also led evidence through Dr. Siti Zanariah binti
Md Naziri (“PW3”), a pathologist, who performed the autopsy on
the deceased. She found 19 injuries on the deceased’s body
consisting of four deep slash or chop wounds and the rest were
superficial incisive wounds. The four chop wounds were on the
deceased’s head, two of which were deep and penetrating. The
6



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

defensive injuries to both the deceased arms were deep and had
severed his arteries and fractured the bones in both his hands. Dr.
Siti Zanariah opined that the deceased had died from excessive
bleeding from these slash wounds which could have been caused by
a sharp object.
[19] The investigating officer ASP Nirmala Arumugam (“PW7”)
testified that she went to the scene of incident about 1 pm on being
notified of the incident. She noticed that the hardware shop near the
restaurant had a CCTV camera. She viewed the CCTV footage and
it showed that at 12.07 p.m the deceased had entered the hardware
shop and left at 12.10 p.m. It also showed the deceased being
chased by a Indian male wielding a parang. The Indian male had a
white helmet on and was wearing a short sleeved red shirt and tight
fitting long pants. The CCTV footage also showed the deceased a
few minutes later at the backlane of the hardware shop trying to
avoid two persons on a motorcycle, the pillion on the motorcycle
was armed with a parang. Screenshots from the footage were
produced as exhibits. The screenshots were unclear and the faces
could not be identified. The investigating officer explained that the
CCTV footage could not be produced in court as it could no longer
be found in the thumb drive in which she had transferred it to from
the computer at the hardware shop.
[20] The investigating officer stated that the first accused was arrested
about a month later, on 3 August 2015 and the second accused on 5
October 2015. The others arrested in connection with the murder of
the deceased were Kesavan and Anberson. The investigating officer
testified that the police had looked for the parang at a river shown
by the Kesavan, but failed to recover it. She also added that the
employees at the restaurant were unable to identify the assailants.

7



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[21] In cross examination, it was put to the investigating officer by
counsel for the first accused, that she had threatened Kesavan and
Anberson to implicate the first accused and second accused with the
murder, if they wanted to be released.
[22] The deceased’s son (“PW6”) identified the deceased as his father
and confirmed that he died on 5 July 2015. He testified that he was
present during the incident at the Indah Water Seri Klebang when
his father’s windscreen was smashed by the accused persons. He
stated that during the incident the first and second accused were
each armed with a parang and an iron rod, respectively.
Ingredients of the offence
[23] In order to establish the murder charge, it is incumbent upon the
prosecution to prove:
(a)

that the death of the deceased, Gobinanthan a/l
Kumaravellu had taken place;

(b)

that his death had been caused by the first accused
slashing him;

(c)

such act was done with the intention either of causing
death or of causing bodily injury sufficient in the
ordinary course of nature to have caused his death; and

(d)

the murder was perpetrated in furtherance of the
common intention of the first and second accused to
commit murder.

[24] I shall take ingredients (a) and (c) first. The evidence of the
deceased’s son and the pathologist established that the deceased
was Gobinanthan a/l Kumaravellu, and that he had died on 5 July
2015. The evidence of the pathologist as regards the nature of the

8



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

injuries found on the body of the deceased, particularly those on his
head, showed that the deceased was slashed with the intention of
causing him death.
[25] As regards ingredient (b), the prosecution relied on the evidence of
Kesavan and Anberson to establish that it was the first accused who
had slashed the deceased. I found no merit in the contention by the
first accused that the prosecution’s key witnesses, Kesavan and
Anberson were unreliable witnesses whose evidence ought to be
rejected. Equally, I found no merit in the contention that they had a
motive to falsely implicate the first accused to exonerate
themselves. The evidence of Kesavan and Anberson was not shaken
or broken in any way during cross examination.
[26] As regards ingredient (d), it was the prosecution’s case that the first
accused had slashed the deceased in furtherance of the common
intention between him and the second accused to kill the deceased.
It is instructive in this regard to refer to the pronouncements of the
Federal Court in Adiswaran Tharumaputrintar v. PP & Others
[2014] 3 CLJ 813 with regard to the law on common intentionat
paras 79 and 80:
In Om Prakash v. State AIR [1956] All 241, it was held that
presence on the spot for the purpose of facilitating or
promoting the offence is itself tantamount to actual
participation in the criminal act. The court cited the example
where a person who is an eye-witness of the incident is
present at the spot as well as [the example of] a person who is
a confederate of the assailant. The former is not guilty
because he is present merely to see the commission of the
crime. On the other hand, the latter is guilty because he is
present for the purpose of seeing that the crime is committed.

9



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

In Wan Yurillhami Wan Yaacob & Anor v. Public Prosecutor
[2010] 1 CLJ 17 at p. 35; [2001] 1 MLJ 749 at p. 764 this
court opined:
It is a well established principle of law in dealing with
the criminal liability under s. 34 of the Penal Code that
a pre-concert or preplanning may develop on the spot or
during the course of the commission of the offence, but
the crucial test is that such plan must precede the act
constituting the offence. The existence of common
intention is a question of fact and in each case it may be
proved as a matter of inference from the circumstances
of the case (see the cases of Mahbub Sha v. Emperor
AIR [1945] PC 118 and Suresh v. State of Uttar
Pradesh AIR [2001] SC 1344...
[27] Applying the principles here, the evidence of Kesavan and
Anberson showed that though the first accused was the actual doer
of the criminal act in the present case, the second accused was also
present and participated by assisting him in two ways. First, there
was unchallenged evidence that prior to the murder, the first and
the second accused had left the restaurant for a short while and
when they returned, there had a badminton bag with them. It was
true that there was no direct evidence as to what was in the said
bag, but the fact the murder took place soon after they had returned,
indicated it must have been the parang that was used to slash the
deceased.
[28] In this regard, it was pertinent to note that the deceased’s son had
testified that during the incident at Indah Water Seri, the first
accused was armed with a parang. This, to my mind, demonstrated
that the accused persons kept a parang in their lorry, and had left
the restaurant to bring it to attack the deceased.

10



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[29] Secondly, the second accused also assisted the first accused to flee
the crime scene on Kesavan’s motorcycle. The parang that was used
in the commission of the offence was not found at the scene of
crime. This indicated that it was taken away by the first accused.
[30] Based on the above facts, I ruled that on a maximum evaluation of
the evidence the prosecution had established a prima facie case
against the accused persons which if left unrebutted would warrant
their conviction. See Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85.
Defence
[31] Both the accused elected to give evidence on oath. Each denied
having anything to do with the murder of the deceased.
[32] I shall now refer to the evidence of the first accused in detail. He
said he was at the material time working for the second accused,
who was in the business of buying and selling scrap metal. The first
accused admitted being at the restaurant on the date of the murder
with the second accused, Kesavan and Anberson. He also admitted
that Kesavan had picked him up that morning from his house and
took him to the restaurant, and thereafter picked up the second
accused.
[33] The first accused said that he and the second accused had come to
Klebang Restu to meet a supplier of scrap metal. Whilst the three of
them were having a meal at the restaurant, he saw the deceased
circling around the restaurant in his motorcycle.
[34] He then heard the second accused ask Kesavan if he had a parang,
and the latter said he did. Kesavan then telephoned Anberson to
bring a knife to the restaurant. When Anberson came to the
restaurant, Kesavan asked him if he had brought a knife and the
former confirmed it. He heard them plotting to kill the deceased.
On hearing this, he panicked and excused himself went to the toilet.
11



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

When he came out, he heard the deceased shouting for help and
running to the back of the restaurant which opened to the back lane.
[35] According to the first accused, he then went to the back lane and
saw the second accused and Kesavan slashing the deceased. He was
shocked and asked Anberson to send him home. That night, the
second accused came to his house and warned him that if he
reported the matter he would suffer the same misfortune as the
deceased. It was for this reason, he had not put this version to
Kesavan and Anberson during cross examination. The other reason
for not doing so was because of one Mosses, a fellow inmate in
Taiping prison. Mosses, at the behest of the second accused,
assaulted him and warned him not to implicate the second accused
during the trial. According to him, one Sargeant Mazlan from
Taiping prison was aware of this matter and would be able to
confirm it.
[36] The first accused also denied that he had sold Kesavan’s
motorcycle. He alleged that he has been falsely implicated by the
investigating officer because of an incident involving her husband.
The investigating officer’s husband had one occasion come over to
his house and shouted abuses at his dad over a pawn ticket, and
when he approached the former to hit him, he left.
[37] The first accused accepted that 3 weeks prior to the murder, the
incident described by Kesavan had taken place at Indah Water Seri
Klebang. An altercation broke out when the deceased blocked the
path with his car. However, he denied that he had shattered the
windscreen of the deceased’s car. He pointed to the second accused
and Kesavan as the persons who smashed the windscreen using a
iron rod and a parang respectively. He claimed he was in the lorry
during the incident.

12



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

[38] In cross examination, it was put to the first accused by the deputy
public prosecutor that he and the second accused had acted in
concert to kill the deceased. They had on seeing the deceased going
into the hardware shop, given chase and when the deceased ran to
the back lane, slashed him to death. It was further put to him that
his version of the events was untrue, and that it was he who slashed
the deceased.
[39] The first accused called 2 witnesses, his father (“DW2”) and
Mosses (“DW3”). Sergeant Mazlan was subpoenaed but was not
called. DW2 testified that he and the investigating officer’s
husband had a misunderstanding over some pawn ticket a few years
ago and the investigating officer has falsely implicated his son with
the murder.
[40] Mosses, in his evidence, admitted that he had assaulted the first
accused at Taiping prison but explained this had nothing to do with
this case. He had assaulted the first accused because the latter had
uttered vulgarities at him.
[41] That brings me to the second accused’s version of facts. He denied
that he had slashed the deceased as alleged by the first accused. He
denied having anything to do with the murder. He admitted he was
at the restaurant on the date of the murder with the first accused,
Kesavan and Anberson and Kesavan had picked him up from the
Mobil station where he had parked his lorry. He was there to meet a
scrap metal dealer that Kesavan had arranged for him to meet at the
restaurant.
[42] According to him, the scrap metal dealer did not show up. About
half an hour later, he received a call from his customer, an
Indonesian called Man. At about this time, he saw the deceased
riding a motorcycle in front of the restaurant. He and the second
accused left the restaurant on Kesavan’s motorcycle to meet his
13



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

customer at a shop nearby. He bought copper wires from this
customer and put it in a bag. It then realised that he had left his
pouch which contained his wallet, at the restaurant and came and
back with the first accused to retrieve it. Whilst on the way to the
customer’s shop to make payment, the first accused asked to be
dropped off near a Maybank in the vicinity.
[43] The second accused claimed that after paying the customer, he went
back to his lorry and left the bag of copper wires therein. He came
back after 10 minutes, but did not see the first accused near the
Maybank or the restaurant but heard a commotion from behind the
restaurant. He then rode his motorcycle to the backlane and saw
several people, including Kesavan, Anberson and the first accused.
He called out to the first accused who approached him and
informed him that there was a quarrel. The first accused was not
carrying any weapons. He asked the first accused to follow him and
he proceeded to the Mobil station where his lorry was parked. He
took his lorry and went home and asked the first accused to return
the motorcycle to Kesavan.
[44] Continuing with his testimony, he alleged that later that night, the
first accused telephoned him and asked him to follow him to
Kesavan’s house in Sungai Siput to return the motorcycle. The first
accused wanted a lift back to his house. On reaching Kesavan’s
house, he saw the first accused talking to Kesavan, and was later
informed by the first accused that Kesavan wanted to stay with him
(the first accused) for 2 to 3 days. The next day, the first accused
telephoned him again and mentioned that the deceased had passed
away following a fight with Kesavan.
[45] The second accused, like the first accused admitted that 3 weeks
prior to the murder, the incident described by Kesavan had taken
place at Indah Water Seri Klebang. He admitted smashing the

14



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

windscreen of the deceased’s car and added that the first accused
had used a knife to damage the same. He denied having requested
Mosses to assault and threaten the first accused.
[46] Under cross examination, the second accused denied that the first
accused had slashed the deceased in furtherance of their common
intention to kill him. He denied that the reason he and the first
accused had left the restaurant was to take the parang from the
lorry. He denied that he had assisted the first accused to flee from
the scene of the incident.
The principles applicable at the close of the defence case
[47]

The duty of the court at the end of the defence case is to determine
whether the defence has created a reasonable doubt in the
prosecution’s case. This is illustrated by the judgment of the
Federal Court in Duis Akim & Ors v. PP [2013] 9 CLJ 692, wherein
it was observed:
We note that when assessing the defence the learned trial
judge surprisingly revisited his earlier findings upon which he
called for the defence. Such approach is quite contrary to the
principle of maximum evaluation of the evidence adduced at
the close of the prosecution’s case. Indeed in his judgment
the learned trial judge made it very clear that he had
conducted a maximum evaluation of the evidence adduced by
the prosecution before calling for the defence. In Public
Prosecutor v. Khong Soh [1966] 2 MLJ 137 MacIntyre J said
this at p 139:
Having held that a prima facie case had been made out
against the respondent, the learned president should
have given his reasons for holding why the respondent’s
evidence had created a reasonable doubt in his mind.

15



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

Thus, in the present case the learned trial judge, having
given the evidence before him the maximum evaluation
before calling for the defence, should have therefore
focused on whether the defence had cast a reasonable
doubt in the prosecution’s case and even if it did not,
whether as a whole the prosecution had proved its case
beyond reasonable doubt before finding the appellants
innocent or guilty for the offence as charged.
Has the defence created a reasonable doubt
[48] There are three conflicting versions here. First, the prosecution’s
version that the deceased was slashed to death by the first accused
acting in concert with the second accused. Next, the first accused’s
version that he had nothing to do with the offence, and the deceased
was slashed by the second accused and Kesavan, and the third
version by the second accused that he has not involved in the
murder.
[49] I must now assess the testimony of the first accused. It goes without
saying that if I believed the version given by Anberson and
Kesavan, then the defence of the accused must necessarily fail, for
on that version, it was clear that it was the first accused who
slashed the deceased with a parang and the second accused was
present at the scene of the murder. It was also clear on that version
that the murder took place soon after the accused persons returned
to the restaurant with a badminton bag.
[50] I was completely satisfied that the testimony of Kesavan and
Anberson was that of witnesses of truth. Having seen them give
their evidence, and having observed their demeanour, especially
under cross-examination and having tested it against the totality of
the evidence I was satisfied that they were telling the truth about

16



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

what they had witnessed. They had no reason to falsely implicate
the first and second accused.
[51] There were several unsatisfactory features in the testimony of the
first accused. First, he gave two very different versions pertaining
to the events of 5 July 2015. His first version as put to Kesavan was
to the effect that it was Kesavan and Anberson who had slashed the
deceased. This version was abandoned in his evidence, and he
elected to proceed with the version that the deceased was slashed
by the second accused and Kesavan, whereupon he took a lift from
Anberson and immediately left the scene of incident. The first
accused was represented by counsel at all material times, and I find
it difficult to believe that if indeed, he had been threatened by the
second accused as alleged, his solicitor would not have brought it
to the court’s attention at the relevant time. I find the first accused
to be an unreliable and untrustworthy witness who had no regard
for the truth.
[52] Secondly, during the cross examination of Kesavan, it was put to
him that he had confessed to killing the deceased to one Anand, but
this person was not called to corroborate his version. There was
also no mention of Anand by the first accused in his evidence.
[53] Next, the first accused alleged that he has been falsely implicated
by the investigating officer with the murder of the deceased
because of the incident involving him and her husband. It strains
credulity to accept his allegation that the investigating officer
would fix up an innocent man with murder over a minor incident,
assuming his evidence about the incident was true.
[54] I turn now to assess the evidence of the second accused. His
evidence conflicted with that of the first accused. As in the case of
the first accused, having accepted, as I did, the testimony of
Kesavan and Anberson, which affords proof that the second
17



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

accused was at the back lane when the deceased was slashed, and
the parang used to slash the deceased was brought to the restaurant
in a badminton bag by the first and second accused. His defence
must also fail.
[55] There were also several unsatisfactory features in the testimony of
the second accused. The gist of his evidence was that all he saw a
group of people at the back lane and heard the words “potong,
potong”. He did not see who had slashed the deceased. There was a
lack of detail in his evidence as to what he saw. I find the lack of
detail troubling. The fact the second accused was vague as to how
the incident actually occurred was not consistent with his
innocence. The evidence of Kesavan and Anberson showed that he
would have seen who slashed the deceased.
[56] It was clear to me that he did not want to implicate the first accused
to ensure that no suspicion would be cast on him. It cannot be
gainsaid that if he implicated the first accused, he would have to
admit that the first accused had the parang with him when they
escaped on Kesavan’s motorcycle.
[57] The second accused also did not call his customer Man, from whom
he alleged he had bought copper wire in a bag to substantiate his
version. Man could have corroborated his version that there was no
parang but copper wires in the badminton bag that brought to the
restaurant.
[58] For the reasons given, I do not believe the evidence of the accused
persons nor has it raised any reasonable doubt in the prosecution
case. I therefore find that the prosecution has proved its case
against the accused persons beyond a reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, I find the first and second accused guilty and convict
them of the charge of murder. They are accordingly, sentenced to

18



[2017] 1 LNS 1010

Legal Network Series

death in accordance with section 277 of the Criminal Procedure
Code.

Dated: 30 JUNE 2017

(S M KOMATHY SUPPIAH)
Judicial Commissioner
High Court of Malaya
Ipoh

Date of Decision: 16 JUNE 2017

Counsel:
For the 1 st accused - M Saravanan; M/s S Muthu & Co
For the 2 nd accused - Charan Singh & Jagdave Singh; M/s Nurul &
Charan
For the public prosecution - Harris Ong Mohd Jeffrey Ong

19

