[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

DI DALAM MAHKAMAH TINGGI DI ALOR SETAR
DI DALAM NEGERI KEDAH DARUL AMAN
[PERBICARAAN JENAYAH NO: 45A-15-04/2013]
DI ANTARA
PENDAKWA RAYA
LAWAN
1.

MOHD HISHAMMUDIN MOHD RAZAK
2.
AZRUL ANUAR OSMAN

CRIMINAL LAW: Dangerous drugs - Trafficking - Offence under s.
39B(1)(a) of Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 ('DDA') - Possession - Drugs
in black plastic bags found in a car where accused persons were
caught - Accused persons not owners of car - Inference from
surrounding circumstances - Whether element of possession was
proven - Whether there was evidence from surrounding circumstances
that could strongly suggest an inference of knowledge on part of
accused
CRIMINAL LAW: Common intention - Trafficking - Participation in
crime - Inference from surrounding circumstances - Presence of
accused persons at crime scene - Whether element of common
intention proven - Whether presence of accused persons at crime
scene sufficient to raise implication of pre-planning - Whether there
was evidence of communication between accused persons before
commission of crime

1



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

CIRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Prosecution - Prima facie case - Offence
of trafficking in dangerous drugs - Drugs found in a car - Proof of
common intention - Existence of more than one inference Unsatisfactory explanation pertaining to discrepancies in charge Contradictory

evidence

of

prosecution's

witnesses

-

Whether

prosecution was able to produce direct or presumptive evidence to
prove prima facie case - Whether prosecution was able to produce
evidence to show existence of common intention among accused in
participation of commission of offence - Whether inference most
favourable to accused should be accepted when there was more than
one inference which could reasonably be drawn from a set of facts in
a criminal case
[Prosecution failed to prove prima facie case. First and second
accused discharged and acquitted from charges.]
Case(s) referred to:
Chan Pean Leon v. PP [1956] 1 LNS 17 HC (refd)
Ho Seng Seng v. Rex [1951] 1 LNS 25 HC (refd)
Ibrahim Mohamad & Anor v. PP [2011] 4 CLJ 113 FC (refd)
Khairuddin Hassan v. PP [2010] 7 CLJ 129 FC (refd)
Law Sie Hoe v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 269 CA (refd)
Lee Kwai Heong & Anor v. PP [2006] 1 CLJ 1043 CA (refd)
Low Thiam Teck v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 1104 CA (refd)
Mimi Wong & Anor v. Public Prosecutor [1972] 1 LNS 88 HC (refd)
Muhammed Hassan v. Public Prosecutor [1998] 2 CLJ 170 FC
(refd)

2



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

Namasiyiam Doraisamy v. Public Prosecutor [1987] CLJ Rep 241
SC (refd)
Ong Chee Hoe & Anor v. PP [1999] 4 SLR 688 (refd)
Parlan Dadeh v. PP [2009] 1 CLJ 717 FC (refd)
PP v. Ang Kian Chai [2012] 1 LNS 389 CA (refd)
PP v. Azilah Hadri & Anor [2015] 1 CLJ 579 FC (refd)
PP v. Denish Madhavan [2009] 2 CLJ 209 FC (foll)
PP v. Kua Tiong Ann [2009] 1 LNS 195 HC (refd)
PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457 FC (refd)
Public Prosecutor v. Kasmin Bin Soeb [1974] 1 LNS 116 HC (refd)
Rina Simanjuntak v. PP [2015] 2 CLJ 912 CA (refd)
Siew Yoke Keong v. PP [2013] 4 CLJ 149 FC (refd)
Suresh v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR [2001] SC 1344 (refd)
Tai Chai Keh v. Public Prosecutor [1948] 1 LNS 122 CA (refd)
Toh Ah Loh & Mak Thim v. Rex [1948] 1 LNS 72 HC (refd)
Yeo Boh Suat & Ors v. Rex [1948] 1 LNS 150 (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Criminal Procedure Code, ss. 180(2), (3), (4)
Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, ss. 2, 37(d), (da), 37A, 39B(1)(a), (2)
Evidence Act 1950, s. 9
Penal Code, s. 34
Other source(s) referred to:
Ratanlal & Dhirajlal’s, Law of Crimes, 24 t h ed, Bharat Law House:
New Delhi, Vol. 1, 123
3



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

JUDGMENT
Introduction
[1]

Mohd Hishamuddin Bin Mohd Razak (“the first accused”) and Azrul

Anuar Bin Osman (“the second accused”) were jointly charged with one
Ridzuan bin Yahya (“the deceased”) with trafficking 13,995 grams of
cannabis in contravention of s. 39B(1)(a) of the Dangerous Drugs Act
1952 (“DDA”) read together with section 34 of the Penal Code. The
offence is punishable under s. 39B(2) of the same Act, which carries a
mandatory death sentence upon conviction.

4



[2015] 1 LNS 668

[2]

Legal Network Series

The charge is as follows:
Bahawa kamu bersama-sama seorang lagi yang telah
meninggal dunia bernama Ridzuan bin Yahya (No.
K/P 730427-02-5851) pada 1 Ogos 2012, jam lebih
kurang jam 9.30 malam, di hadapan rumah No. 8/90,
Ladang Victoria, Padang Serai, di dalam Daerah
Kulim, di dalam Negeri Kedah Darul Aman, telah
didapati mengedar dadah berbahaya iaitu Cannabis
seberat 13,995 gram. Oleh yang demikian, kamu
telah melakukan satu kesalahan di bawah seksyen
39B(1)(a) Akta Dadah Berbahaya 1952 dan boleh
dihukum di bawah seksyen 39B Akta yang sama di
baca bersama seksyen 34 Kanun Keseksaan.

The Salient Facts in the Prosecution’s Case
The Prosecution’s Witnesses
[3]

The prosecution called 11 witnesses, namely, the Chemist (“SP1”),

2 public witnesses (“SP2” and “SP3”) and 8 police officers - they were:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

Photographer (“SP4”);
Store-keeper (“SP5”);
Officer Johari (the agent provocateur (“AP”) / “SP6”);
Officer Mohd Razi (the first arresting officer (“AO”) / “SP7”);
Officer Raja (the second arresting officer / “SP8”);

vi.
vii.

Narcotic officer (“SP9”);
ASP Muhamad Saharan (narcotic officer from IPK, Kedah /
“SP10”); and

viii. Officer Raja Hafiz (the investigating officer (“IO”) / “SP11”).

5



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

Based on Information Received
[4]

On 18.7.2012, based on information received, ASP Saharan

(SP10) ordered Officer Johari (SP6) to act as an agent provocateur to
make contact with a Malay man (who was the deceased) believed to be
involved in drug trafficking, particularly in cannabis, in the area of Sg.
Petani. SP10 also ordered officer Ajib to assist SP6 in the operation.
SP10 then contacted the informer to arrange a meeting with the
deceased.

The deceased agreed to meet at Restoran Dinaz in Sg.

Petani, Kulim at 5.00 p.m. on the same day.
(NOTE: During the trial, the words ‘suspect’, ‘target’ and ‘Wan’ were
used interchangeably, and they all were referring to the deceased Ridzuan bin Yahya)
The First Meeting
[5]

Around 3.00 p.m., SP6 and officer Ajib went to Sg. Petani to meet

the deceased. The informer was there when they arrived at the
restaurant at 5.00 p.m. The informer contacted the deceased. Shortly,
a Honda Odyssey pulled up in front of the restaurant. The deceased
alighted from the vehicle and went straight to where the informer and
SP6 were sitting. The informer introduced SP6 as ‘Abang Jep’ and
officer Ajib as ‘Abang Long’ to the deceased. After the introduction, the
informer left the restaurant.
[6]

SP6 began talking to the deceased about buying cannabis from

him. Throughout the conversation, they used the word ‘buah’ to refer to
cannabis. They discussed for a while and SP6 left his contact number

6



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

with the deceased before leaving. The meeting ended around 6.00 p.m.
SP6 went back to headquarters and reported to SP10 about what had
transpired in that meeting.
The Second Meeting
[7]

On 26.7.2012 around 10.00 a.m., the deceased called SP6. The

deceased wanted to meet SP6 at a petrol station in Lunas at 7.00 p.m.
the same day. SP6 informed SP10 about the meeting. SP10 then
ordered two officers to follow him to tail SP6 to the meeting place. They
went in different cars.
[8]

Around 7.00 p.m., SP6 arrived at the petrol station. The deceased

told SP6 to follow his car from behind to a restaurant in Lunas.
Meanwhile, SP10 and his officers were observing them from a distance.
[9]

When they were at the restaurant, SP6 again discussed with the

deceased about buying cannabis from him. This was the second time
they met. SP6 told the deceased that he wanted 15 packets of cannabis
(1 kilogram per packet). The deceased agreed to supply the cannabis at
a price of RM2,200.00 per packet. They agreed that the total transaction
price was RM33,000.00. They also agreed to meet on 1.8.2012 at 7.30
p.m. at Restoran Al-Amin in Padang Serai to conclude the transaction.
SP6 reported the outcome of the meeting to SP10 the same day.
The Briefing
[10] On 1.8.2012 around 5.00 p.m., a briefing, led by Officer Mohd
Razi, SP7, was held at the narcotic investigation headquarters, Kedah.

7



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

The briefing, codenamed “Operasi Kapas”, was for the arrest of a drug
trafficker, and a drug transaction that would be taking place in the
evening. 22 officers attended the briefing. The officers were later
divided into 6 teams; each team was provided with a walkie-talkie.
Firearms were also provided to the officers. The officers were instructed
to gather at the Padang Serai Police Station at 6.30 p.m., and from there
they will go to the location where SP6 and the deceased were supposed
to meet.
The Final Meeting
[11] Around 7.30 p.m., SP6 (together with officer Ajib) arrived at the
Restoran Al-Amin in Padang Serai. The deceased was expecting SP6.
It was the month of Ramadhan for the Muslims; SP6 and the deceased
broke fast together at the restaurant. Meanwhile, the raiding parties
were within the vicinity of the restaurant observing SP6 and the
deceased.
[12] After dinner, the deceased made a phone call. SP6 told the Court
that he heard the deceased said: “OK, Din, kami boleh bertolak mei.
Nanti sampai di Victoria Estate, kamu nampak kami parkir kereta 2 biji.”
The deceased told SP6 to follow his car from behind. According to the
prosecution’s narrative, the deceased was driving a white colour
Perodua Alza; whereas, SP6 was driving a Honda Accord.
[13] Around 8.30 p.m., they arrived at Victoria Estate. They pulled over
at the road side, next to a building, a kind of community hall, known as
Dewan Muhibbah Victoria Estate. The raiding parties tailed the
deceased to Victoria Estate from the restaurant.

8



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[14] Upon reaching Victoria Estate, SP7 instructed his officers to standby and keep a close watch over SP6 and the deceased. The distance
was approximately 20 to 25 meters between SP6 and where SP7
stopped his car. SP7 testified that he could see SP6 clearly from where
his position was.
[15] SP6 testified that he stopped his car at the back of the deceased’s
car. SP6 also testified that the deceased came out from his car and
went into SP6’s car. Officer Ajib showed the deceased the money in
SP6’s car. SP6 further testified that the deceased counted the money in
the car. The deceased then made a phone call while he was still inside
SP6’s car. He heard the deceased said: “Din, payment ada. OK, nanti
sampai di Victoria Estate, bersebelahaan ada kereta 2 biji. Depan
kereta saya Alza putih, dan kereta Honda Accord. Bila sampai nanti,
buat U-turn parkir di belakang Honda Accord.”
The Ambush
[16] Around 9.00 p.m., a silver colour Kancil, bearing registration
number PFF 7415, arrived at the scene. The Kancil stopped at the back
of SP6’s car. The deceased said to SP6: “Abang Jep, buah sudah
sampai, ada di Kancil kereta belakang.”
[17] SP6 alighted from his car and went to the Kancil. SP6 saw two
persons in the Kancil. He asked the driver in the Kancil: “Mana barang?”
The driver replied: “Barang ada dalam sarung plastik hitam di cushion
belakang.” SP6 then went into the Kancil through the back passenger’s
door. SP6 found two layers of black plastic bag containing packets of

9



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

compressed substances. SP6 was positive that those substances in the
plastic bags were cannabis because of the smell coming out from the
plastic bags when he opened it. He then came out from the Kancil.
Immediately after that, he removed his cap and shouted “Police”. The
gesture of removing his cap was a signal for the raiding parties to take
action and make arrest.
[18] When SP7 saw SP6’s signal, he ordered his men to take swift
action. SP7 and officer Saiful ambushed the Kancil. They apprehended
the person sitting next to the driver, who was later identified as the
second accused. SP7 told the Court that he saw the driver in the Kancil
fleeing from the scene.
[19] SP8 testified that he saw the driver in the Kancil running towards a
nearby housing estate. SP8 and officer Abdullah bin Hamazah chased
after the Kancil’s driver. They successfully apprehended the driver after
an approximately 100 meters chase. The driver was later identified as
the first accused. SP8 brought the first accused back to the place where
the Kancil was. The deceased had apparently fled the scene with his
Perodua Alza amid the commotion.
Incriminating Drug Found
[20] SP7 searched the Kancil in the presence of the accused persons.
He found 15 pieces of compressed substances which were believed to
be cannabis contained in black plastic bags at the rear seats. SP7 took
the accused persons and the seized incriminating substances back to
Kulim police station. They were later handed to SP11, officer Raja

10



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

Hafiz, the investigating officer, to follow up with the necessary
investigation.
[21] The incriminating substances were later sent to the Jabatan Kimia
Malaysia for analysis. The government chemist, SP1, in her chemist
report (AS)FOR 2261/12-0 dated 27.1.2013 (exhibit P4) confirmed that
those substances submitted for analysis were cannabis as defined under
s.2 of the DDA. The nett weight of the seized cannabis was 13,995
grams.
At the Close of Prosecution’s Case
A Prima Facie Case
[22] Pursuant to s. 180(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CPC), it is
incumbent upon this Court to consider at the conclusion of the
prosecution’s case whether the prosecution has made out a prima facie
case against the accused persons. If the prosecution has made out a
prima facie case, pursuant to s. 180(3) of the CPC, the Court is required
to call upon the accused persons to enter defence. Conversely, if the
prosecution has not made out a prima facie case, the Court shall record
an order of acquittal (see s. 180(2) of the CPC).
[23] Section 180(4) of the CPC explains “a prima facie case is said to
have been made out when the prosecution has adduced credible
evidence proving each ingredient of the offence in which if
unrebutted or unexplained would warrant a conviction.” In other words,
the prosecution has to lead evidence which is so sufficiently strong

11



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

against the accused person that if this evidence is not rebutted or
explained, then the trial judge is left with no option but to record a
conviction.
[24] It is trite law that a criminal trial judge is tasked with applying the
maximum evaluation test (positive evaluation) on the prosecution’s
evidence at the close of prosecution case. The Federal Court in PP v.
Mohd Radzi bin Abu Bakar [2005] 6 MLJ 393, pp 399-400 / [2006] 1
CLJ 457, pp 465-7 held that the exercise of maximum evaluation test
should involve “an assessment of the credibility of the witnesses called
by the prosecution and the drawing of inferences admitted by the
prosecution evidence.” It further held that “if the prosecution evidence
admits of two or more inferences, one which is in the accused’s favour,
then it is the duty of the court to draw the inference that is favourable to
the accused.”
[25] Assessing the credibility of the prosecution’s witness means
weighing the prosecution’s evidence. The weight of the evidence goes
to support the quantum of proof, and the quantum of proof that is
required from the prosecution to prove is to establish a prima facie case.
Hence, the exercise of maximum evaluation by the trial judge on the
prosecution’s evidence is a sine qua non before holding whether a prima
facie case is made out at the close of prosecution case.
The Offence of Trafficking - s. 39B(1)(a) of the DDA
[26] The definition of ‘trafficking’ under s. 2 of the DDA covers
extensive situations where an act could be regarded as ‘trafficking’
within the meaning of the Act. It includes manufacturing, importing,

12



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

exporting, keeping, concealing, buying, selling, giving, receiving, storing,
administering, transporting, carrying, sending, delivering, procuring,
supplying or distributing any dangerous drug otherwise than under the
authority of the Act or the regulations made under the Act.
[27] The act of trafficking can be proved by direct and/or circumstantial
evidence, which means to prove the existence of one or combination of
any of the acts mentioned in s. 2 of the DDA. ‘Trafficking’ can also be
established by way of statutory presumption under s. 37(da) of the DDA.
In the former, the quantum of proof required to rebut the physical and
fault elements of trafficking is on the standard of reasonable doubt.
Whereas, in the later, the quantum of proof required to rebut the
compelling statutory presumption is on balance of probabilities, a
standard which is higher than raising a reasonable doubt.
[28] The ingredients of s. 39B(1)(a) of the DDA are as follows:
(i)

the accused person was in possession of the incriminating
drugs at that material time; and

(ii)

the accused person was in the act of trafficking the
incriminating drug at that material time.

(see Pendakwa Raya v. Kua Tiong Ann [2009] 7 AMR 788, p 795)
[29] ‘Possession’ is the chief element leading to the offence of
trafficking in the DDA. In the absence of proof of ‘possession’, the
prosecution’s case collapses. ‘Possession’ can be proved by direct
and/or circumstantial evidence. Alternatively, it also can be proved by
statutory presumption under s. 37(d) of the DDA. Section 37(d) of the

13



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

DDA is a compelling statutory presumption in which both the physical
and fault elements are deemed proved upon establishing the accused
person was either in custody or control of the incriminating substance at
the material time. The quantum of proof to rebut the latter is on the
balance of probabilities.
[30] In Toh Ah Loh and Mak Thim v. Rex [1949] 15 MLJ 54, the
appellate court affirmed the direction given by the trial judge to the jury
on the meaning of ‘possession’. It was said:
“Possession, in order to incriminate a person, must
have the following characteristics. The possessor
must know the nature of the thing possessed, must
have in him a power of disposal over the thing, and
lastly must be conscious of his possession of the
thing. If these factors are absent, his possession can
raise no presumption of mens rea, without which
(except by statute) possession cannot be criminal.”
[31] The above proposition was followed in Yeo Boh Suat & Ords v.
Rex (1948-49) MLJ Supp 105, and it was later further expounded in Ho
Seng Seng v. Rex [1951] 17 MLJ 225, wherein Brown, Ag. CJ had
explained the meaning of and differences between ‘custody’ and ‘control’
lucidly. In gist, he said that ‘custody’ means ‘the possessor must be
conscious of his possession of the thing’; and ‘control’ means ‘the
possessor must be conscious of his possession of the thing’ as well as
‘he must have the power of disposal over the thing’.
[32] Section 37(d) of the DDA, in effect, the presumption works in the
following manner:

14



[2015] 1 LNS 668

i.

ii.

Legal Network Series

Once the prosecution has proved custody, ie, ‘the possessor
must be conscious of his possession of the thing’, a fortiori, ‘the
possessor must have the power of disposal over the thing’ and
‘the possessor must know the nature of the thing possessed’;
OR
Once the prosecution has proved control, ie, ‘he must be
conscious of his possession of the thing’ and ‘must have the
power of disposal over the thing’, a fortiori, ‘the possessor must
know the nature of the thing possessed.’

[33] Once it is proven that the possessor is in custody or control of
anything containing the incriminating substances, until the contrary is
proven, the possessor is deemed to have been in possession of such
incriminating substances, and shall, until the contrary is proven, also be
deemed to have known the nature of such thing possessed.
[34] It is instructive to note that in the event the prosecution chooses to
rely on s. 37(d) of DDA to establish ‘possession’, the prosecution is
precluded from further invoking the statutory presumption of trafficking
under s. 37(da) of DDA. This is the rule of against double presumption
or presumption upon presumption. This rule was propounded in the
Federal Court decision in Muhammed Hassan v. PP [1998] 2 CLJ 170.
This rule became inapplicable after Parliament inserted s.37A in the
DDA which allows the application and operation of presumption upon
presumption for offences charged under the Act. This enabling section
came into force on 15.2.2014. However, cases where the offence was
committed before the effective date are not caught under the enabling
section. The Court of Appeal in Rina Simanjuntak v. PP [2015] 2 CLJ
912, p. 917, has made this proposition very clear.

15



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[35] In this instant case, the accused persons were alleged to have
committed the offence on 1.8.2012 which was prior to the date the
enabling section came into the force. Therefore, based on the decision
of Rina Simanjuntak, s. 37A of DDA is not applicable in this instant
case. The law in Muhammed Hassan is still relevant.
The Findings of the Court
KNOWLEDGE AND POSSESSION
[36] In order to prove possession, this Court refers to the Federal Court
decision in PP v. Denish Madhavan [2009] 2 CLJ 209 for guidance. At
pages 217-8, the apex court cited the case of Chan Pean Leon v. PP
[1956] 1 LNS 17 with approval. It is also instructive to refer to the
decision of the Court of Appeal in Law Sie Hoe v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 269,
wherein it was held that the incriminating act of possession must contain
three characteristics: Firstly, the person in possession must have
knowledge of the thing in his possession; secondly, he must have in him
a power of disposal over the thing; and thirdly, he must be conscious of
the possession of the thing. The legal proposition in Law Sie Hoe
encapsulates the principles that were propounded in earlier cases with
approval.
[37] Based on the above Federal Court’s and Court of Appeal’s
decisions, it is judicious for this Court now to ask itself the following
question: Whether the accused persons were so situated with the black
plastic bags which contained the incriminating drugs found in the Kancil

16



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

that they had the power to deal with the black plastic bags as owners to
the exclusion of all other persons, and when the circumstances were
such that they could be presumed to intend to do so in case of need. In
other words, the accused persons must be so situated that they could
deal with the black plastic bags which contained the incriminating drugs
as if they belonged to the accused persons, and it must be shown that
the accused persons had the intention of dealing with them as if they
belonged to the accused persons should they see any occasion to do so
(they had animus possidendi) (see also the decision of the Federal
Court in Siew Yoke Keong v. PP [2013] 4 CLJ 149, p.).
The Need to Exclude
[38] The incriminating drug (in the black plastic bags) was found in the
Kancil, and the accused persons were not the owners of the Kancil.
Hence, according to Ang Kian Chai v. PP [2012] 4 MLRA 456 (see also
Ibrahim Mohamad & Anor v. PP [2011] 4 CLJ 113), it is necessary for
the prosecution first to adduce evidence to exclude the possibility of
others who could have access to the car prior to the arrest of the
accused persons.
[39] The Kancil belonged to SP2. Sometime in year 2010, SP2 passed
the Kancil to SP3 for him to use. SP2 and SP3 are siblings. Based on
the prosecution’s evidence, on 1.8.2012, the first accused came to
SP3’s house. The first accused wanted to borrow SP3’s Kancil. SP3,
without hesitation, agreed to lend his car to the first accused. The
incriminating drugs were later found at the back seat of the Kancil. The
first accused was the driver, whereas the second accused was seated
next to the driver.

17



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[40] Based on the testimonies of SP2 and SP3 and after having
observed their demeanours in Court, I was satisfied that they were
truthful and honest witnesses. Hence, this Court found no villainy on
their part, or that the incriminating drugs could have been placed in the
car before the first accused took the car from SP3. The possibility of
others who could have access to the vehicle prior to the arrest of the
accused persons could be said to have been excluded.
[41] The learned counsel for the first accused suggested to SP3 that the
reason why the first accused borrowed the car was to let his friend
Ridzuan bin Yahya (the deceased) to use the car that evening, but SP3
could not agree with that.
The Surrounding Circumstances
[42] The incriminating drugs in the black plastic bags were found in the
Kancil where the accused persons were caught. The close proximity
between the accused persons and the incriminating drugs found could
not conclusively prove ‘that the accused persons were so situated with
the incriminating drugs that they could deal with them as if the
incriminating drugs belonged to the accused persons’ or in other words,
that the accused persons have the power to dispose or deal with the
incriminating drugs to the exclusion of others at that material time.
[43] The prosecution must prove the accused persons had the
knowledge of the incriminating drug inside the black plastic bags; and
must have had the intention and power to dispose the incriminating
drugs if necessary to do so. It is said that intention is a matter of fact

18



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

which in the nature of things cannot be proved by direct evidence. It can
only be proved by inference from the surrounding circumstances.
Whether the surrounding circumstances make out such intention is a
question of fact in each individual case. (Chan Pean Leon v. PP
(supra)).
[44] At this juncture, the evidence of SP7 and SP8 in relation to the
surrounding circumstances on that evening is important to determine
whether the accused persons had or had not the intention to dispose the
incriminating drugs if necessary to do so. That intention could possibly
be formed only when they had knowledge the incriminating drugs were
in their possession. If the accused persons did not have the knowledge
of the incriminating drugs which were in their possession, it could not be
possible to establish the intention and power to dispose the incriminating
drugs.
[45] In examination-in-chief, SP7 told the Court that upon seeing SP6
alight from the Kancil and also seeing SP6’s signal to the raiding parties
to take action, SP7 and his officers swiftly ambushed the accused
persons in the Kancil.
[46] It is important to note that, first, it was said the distance between
SP7’s car and the SP6’s car (where the Kancil was at behind) was
approximately 20 to 25 meters. Secondly, according to the evidence of
SP6 in cross-examination, he told the Court that it took approximately 2
minutes after he had given his signal for the raiding officers to arrive at
the scene. Thirdly, SP6 admitted that he shouted the word “Police”
loudly. The shouting of “Police” could have alerted the accused persons
that they had been surrounded by policemen.

19



[2015] 1 LNS 668

(i)

Legal Network Series

The First Accused - Facts Inferring Knowledge and Intention

[47] In evidence, it was said that the first accused fled from the Kancil
and ran to a nearby housing estate. He was arrested by SP8 and officer
Abdullah bin Hamazah about 100 meters away from the scene. It is
probable that within 2 minutes one could run a distance of approximately
100 meters. This Court was of the opinion that the act of running away
could be an impulsive act and that it was relevant; and that act could
give rise to an inference that the first accused must have had knowledge
of the incriminating drugs in the car. Otherwise, why should he flee
leaving his friend and the car behind?
[48] The decision of the Federal Court in Khairuddin bin Hassan v. PP
[2010] 6 MLJ 145 is relevant. It was held that “the appellant’s act of
running away had a direct bearing on the offence he faced, he had to
satisfy the court as to why he had reacted in such manner.” The
decision of the Federal Court made a strong inference on the knowledge
of the appellant in the appellant’s act of running away. It was held at
pages 151-3 as follows:
[7] The conduct of one suspected of an offence is
a relevant fact which may be considered and
evaluated by the court in coming to a conclusion on
whether the suspect perpetrated the offence. Section
8(2) of the Evidence Act 1950 states that:
(2)

The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any

party, to any suit or proceeding in reference to that
suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact in
issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of
any person an offence against whom is the subject
of any proceedings, is relevant if the conduct

20



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series
influences or is influenced by any fact in issue or
relevant fact, and whether it was previous or
subsequent thereto.

The act of running away from the scene of an offence
is certainly a relevant fact as can be seen from this
illustration under that subsection:
(f)

The question is whether A robbed B.

The facts that after B was robbed, C said in A’s
presence: ‘The police are coming to look for the
man who robbed B’ and that immediately afterwards
A ran away are relevant.

[8] Since the appellant’s act of flight had a direct
bearing on the offence he faced, he must satisfy the
trial court why he reacted in that manner. The trial
court, having had the advantage of seeing and
hearing the appellant’s explanation is the best forum
for determining whether such an explanation is
credible or believable….
[9] In Parlan Bin Dadeh v. Public Prosecutor
[2008] 6 MLJ 19, the Federal Court explains the need
for this explanation of an accused person’s conduct in
this manner:
In this case the reaction of the appellant in looking
stunned or shocked upon being approached by the
police is clearly admissible under s. 8 since it has a
direct bearing on the fact in issue as the drugs found
were tucked away in the front of the jeans worn by
him. This explanation for his reaction must therefore
be offered by he himself as required by s. 9. The
court cannot, on its own, offer an explanation for his
reaction…(Emphasis added).

[10] In this case, the learned trial judge had made
a finding of fact that the appellant, and he alone, was
in physical possession of the bag containing the
drugs. The appellant’s conduct of running away has a
nexus to what is now a fact in issue, viz that he was in
physical possession of that bag. This in turn gives
rise to an inference that he had knowledge of the

21



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

drugs in the bag. It is thus up to the appellant himself
to explain his conduct, and not for the court to offer or
suggest one. Chan Kwok Keung & Anor v. The Queen
[1990] 1 CLJ 411; [1990] 3 CLJ 386 (Rep) is authority
for the proposition that an act of running away may be
view as an admission of guilt. The learned trial judge
was therefore not wrong in making that inference in
the circumstances of this case, where the drugs was
found to be in the appellant’s physical possession.
[11] ….
[12] As regards the proximity of the drugs to the
appellant, this too is a relevant fact. This principle is
derived from this passage in Public Prosecutor v. Foo
Jua Eng [1966] 1 MLJ 197; [1965] 1 LNS 137, where
HRH Raja Azlan Shah stated:
With regard to the mental element, the learned
magistrate rightly directed his mind that knowledge
or consciousness would depend on the surrounding
circumstances. However, he failed to direct his mind
adequately on the facts. He directed his mind to the
circumstances when the respondent tried to close
the door on PW1. But he failed to consider the other
circumstances which, taken together, may well be
that the element of possession was proved. That
circumstance is the physical proximity of the
respondent to the exhibit in question.

[13] As such we cannot find fault with the finding
of the learned trial judge that, based on both the
elements of the conduct of the appellant and his
proximity to the recovered drugs, coupled with his
failure to give any satisfactory explanation, he was
in means rea possession of the drugs. This was an
inference made by the learned trial judge based on
sound factual findings which is now confirmed by the
Court of Appeal. We find no justification in disturbing
those findings.
[49] Based on the above excerpt and given the fact that the first
accused ran away from the scene, this Court was minded to consider
22



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

the following: Firstly, the act of running away was a relevant fact.
Secondly, the first accused must satisfy the trial court why he reacted in
that manner. Thirdly, ‘his explanation to rebut any inference detrimental
to his defence became relevant fact under s. 9 of the Evidence Act, and
necessary for the trial court in its evaluation of the case in totality.’
Lastly, the explanation, therefore, must come from the first accused
person himself, and it is not for the trial court to offer an explanation for
his reaction or to suggest one.
[50] The learned counsel for the first accused submitted that the place
of incident was quiet, dim and obscure and it is located at an oil palm
estate. The raiding parties had drawn their firearms during the ambush,
and they were not in police uniform. Upon seeing people holding guns
and running towards the car where the first accused was in, it was not
unusual for the first accused to panic and flee the scene. The reason
given for the first accused’s act of fleeing from the scene in the given
circumstances was not incredibly unbelievable. Though these facts had
been suggested in the prosecution case, yet, based on the decision of
the Federal Court in Khairuddin bin Hassan v. PP, the Court was
inclined to hear his story and explanation. Be that as it may, this Court
was minded to exercise a maximum evaluation of the prosecution’s
case, which means to assess all other evidence from the prosecution’s
witnesses as well, before it could decide whether a prima facie case has
been made out against the first accused and to call the first accused to
enter his defence.

23



[2015] 1 LNS 668

(ii)

Legal Network Series

The Second Accused – Facts Inferring Knowledge and Intention

[51] The second accused was arrested by SP7 and officer Saiful. SP7
remarked that the second accused looked ‘terperanjat’ (which means
‘surprise’) when he was apprehended. The fact that he looked surprised
could infer that he could have knowledge of the incriminating drug in the
car (see Parlan bin Dadeh v. PP [2008] 6 MLJ 19).
[52] However, the fact that the second accused looked ‘surprise’ could
not irresistibly point to only one conclusion, which is the second accused
had knowledge of the incriminating drugs. Given the surrounding
circumstances, anyone could be surprised upon seeing men holding
guns running towards him. The Court of Appeal in Low Thiam Teck v.
PP [2015] 3 MLJ 134 accepted the fact that raiding officers drawing their
firearms while making an arrest could result in an accused looking
surprised. It was held at para 22 as follows:
“Reverting to the issue of the appellant’s conduct, we
agreed with the learned counsel that the learned judge
had erred in evaluating the evidence of SP5 and in
disbelieving the appellant’s evidence when it was
obvious that the evidence of SP5, who admitted
drawing his firearm at the time he effected arrest on
both the appellant and the second accused, supported
the appellant’s evidence. We agreed with the learned
counsel that the appellant’s look surprise was a
reasonable reaction in the circumstances.”
[53] Based on Low Thiam Teck v. PP, this court was entitled to form
an opinion that it was entirely reasonable for second accused to react
with surprise upon seeing men withdrawn guns.

24



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[54] Amid the commotion, the second accused sat in the car for two
minutes before the raiding officers arrived, and he did not do any overt
act. SP7 confirmed in cross-examination that he was not sure whether
the second accused knew of the incriminating substance that was at the
rear seats of the Kancil. However, SP7 did not agree to the suggestion
the reason that the second accused did not run was because he did not
know there was incriminating substance in the car. In re-examination,
SP7 explained that the reason the second accused did not run, though
he looked surprised, could be because of his physical size.
[55] SP7 remarked that the second accused was much bigger in size at
the time of his arrest as compared to his size now (referring to second
accused in the dock). SP7 said the reason why the second accused did
not run could be because he could not have easily alighted from the car
judging from his size at that time. This means he would have run if not
because of his size. This assumption, in my opinion, could not make an
inference that he had knowledge of the incriminating drug in the car. A
person’s lack of physical agility should not be taken into account in the
making of an inference of knowledge of any incriminating substance
found near him. He should not be prejudiced based on his lack of agility.
[56] In fact, the inaction of the second accused when ambushed by the
policemen could only benefit the second accused’s case as it negatives
any inference of knowledge of the incriminating substances in the car.
In criminal proceedings, when there are two inferences that could be
drawn on the same fact, the one favourable to the accused should be
drawn (see PP v. Kasmin Bin Soeb [1974] MLJ 230; Tai Chai Keh v. PP
(1948-49) MLJ Supp 105).

25



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[57] In SP7’s police report (exhibit p35), one part of it stated as follows:
“…KEDUA-DUA LELAKI YANG BERADA DIDALAM
KERETA TERSEBUT
TETAPI

BERJAYA

CUBA MELARIKAN
DITANGKAP

DIRI

SETELAH

BERLAKU PERGELUTAN….”
[58] In evidence, SP7 testified that the second accused did not run nor
did he put up a struggle. This part of SP7’s oral evidence was in direct
conflict with his own report in relation to the second accused. The
discrepancy between the oral evidence and the report is far from trivial; it
goes to the inference of knowledge of the accused person. It is said that
when ‘the prosecution has led two conflicting versions on a particular
material aspect, each striking out the other, then the evidence is
unreliable or untrustworthy’. (see Pendakwa Raya v. Kua Tiong Ann
(supra, p. 808))
[59] Based on the above findings, and based on the principle
enunciated in Chan Pean Leon (supra), this Court was of the
considered view that there was no evidence from the surrounding
circumstances that could strongly suggest an inference of knowledge on
the part of the second accused that he knew of the incriminating drugs
found in the car, much less that he had the power and intention to
dispose the incriminating drugs if necessarily to do so.
[60] Could s. 37(d) of the DDA be invoked against the second
accused? Could he be in custody or control of the incriminating drugs?
As explained earlier, at the minimum the prosecution has to prove the
second accused was conscious of the thing possessed - the element of

26



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

custody. Whether a person is said to be conscious of something can be
proved only by inference deduced from the surrounding circumstances.
In the entire prosecution’s case, there is not an iota of evidence that
could suggest that the second accused knew of the incriminating
substance was in the car. No evidence has been led to suggest the
second accused knew the deceased. SP6 (as an agent provocateur)
said he could smell the scent of the cannabis when he opened the
plastic bags. He also said he could not sense any smell of cannabis
until the plastic bags were open. This suggests that the second
accused, while in the car, could not be aware of the substances,
because at all material times the plastic bags were not open until SP6
went into the Kancil to inspect the plastic bags. This Court could not find
any fact from the surrounding circumstances that could raise an
inference that the second accused was conscious of having in
possession the incriminating substance. There is also no evidence that
could suggest the second accused was in a situation where he had
deliberately turned a blind eye to the obvious.
[61] Based on the above analysis, this Court finds the prosecution has
failed to prove the element of possession on the part of the second
accused either by direct evidence or by statutory presumption s. 37(d) of
the DDA.
COMMON INTENTION
[62] Section 34 of the Penal Code states as follows:
“Each of several person liable for an act done by
all, in like manner as if done by him alone

27



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

34. When a criminal act is done by several
persons, in furtherance of the common intention of all,
each of such persons is liable for that act in the same
manner as if the act were done by him alone.”
[63] The crucial element to prove common intention is ‘‘the existence of
pre-concert or pre-planning which ‘may develop on the spot or during the
course of commission of the offence but the crucial test is that such plan
must precede the act constituting an offence’” (Lee Kwai Heong & Anor
v. PP [2006] 1 CLJ 1043, at p.1064).
[64] In Suresh v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR [2001] SC 1344 (cited in
Lee Kwai Heong with approval) the court therein had eloquently
explained the connotation of s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code which is pari
materia to our s. 34 of the Penal Code. In the judgment of Sethi J, his
Lordship said:
“Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code recognises the
principle of vicarious liability in the criminal
jurisprudence. It makes a person liable for action
of an offence not committed by him but by another
person with whom he shared the common
intention. It is a rule of evidence and does not create
a substantive offence. The section gives statutory
recognition to the common sense principle that if more
than two persons intentionally do a thing jointly, it is
just the same as if each of them had done it
individually. There is no gain saying that a common
intention pre-supposes prior concert, which requires a
pre-arranged plan of the accused participating in an
offence. Such a pre-concert or pre-planning may
develop on the spot or doing the course of
commission of the offence but the crucial test is that
such plan must precede the act constituting an
offence. Common intention can be formed previously

28



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

or in the course of occurrence and on a spur of
moment. The existence of a common intention is a
question of fact in each case to be proved mainly
as a matter of inference from the circumstances of
the case.”
[65] Based on the above passage, it can be said that the occurrence of
any pre-plan among the accused persons must come first before the
criminal act.
[66] It is also said direct evidence of a prior plan to commit an offence
is not necessary in every case because common intention may develop
on the spot and without any long interval of time between it and the
doing of the act commonly intended. In such a case, common intention
may be inferred from the facts and circumstances of the case and the
conduct of the accused (see Namasiyam & Ords v. PP [1987] 2 MLJ
336, at p. 344, where this case was cited by the Federal Court in Public
Prosecutor v. Azilah bin Hadri & Anor [2015] 1 AMR 641, p. 667, with
approval).
[67] The prosecution relied on the principles in Namasiyam & Ords
(supra) and urged this Court to raise an inference from the surrounding
circumstances that the accused persons together with the deceased had
at some point in time pre-planned to commit the offence charged. The
prosecution submitted that the fact that the presence of the accused
persons at the scene found together with the incriminating drugs was not
mere coincidence. They were in fact under the direction of the
deceased to deliver the incriminating drugs to the place of incident in
order to conclude the deal with SP6 (the agent provocateur).

29



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[68] This Court was not convinced by the prosecution’s submission that
the prosecution has proved the crucial element of common intention in
this case.
[69] Firstly, it is said that ‘where the prosecution case rests on
circumstantial evidence, the circumstances which are proved must be
such as necessarily lead only to that inference’ (Namasiyam & Ords
(supra), p. 344). It is my considered view that the circumstances which
were proved in this case not necessary lead to only one inference.
[70] The mere presence of the accused persons at the scene of the
crime was not sufficient for there to be implied that a pre-concert or preplanning had occurred. The prosecution was required to establish that
there was a pre-concert or pre-planning, even at the spur of moment,
before the commission of the offence. Throughout the prosecution’s
narrative, no evidence has been led to suggest there was any preconcert or pre-planning among the accused persons and the deceased.
SP7 agreed that there was no surveillance carried out against the first or
second accused prior to their arrival at the scene. In fact, SP6, the
agent provocateur, met the accused persons for the first time on the day
of arrest.
[71] There was also no evidence that could suggest that the accused
persons met or contacted each other before the commission of the
crime. The evidence that could possibly link the deceased to the first
accused was the two calls the deceased made, one at the restaurant
and the other one in SP6’s car on the evening of 1.8.2012. The name
“Din” was mentioned in both tele-conversations. Presumably, at the
other end of the line was a person by the name of “Din”, which could be

30



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

the nickname or short form of “Hishamuddin”. However, this evidence
could not prove the first accused was in participation of the commission
of the offence in furtherance of that common intention. As regard to the
second accused, the prosecution did not lead any evidence to suggest
there was any nexus between the deceased and the second accused.
[72] The prosecution argued that it was the first accused who told SP6
that the incriminating drugs were at the back seat of the Kancil. As
such, the first accused must have had at one point in time planned with
the deceased how, when and where to deliver the incriminating drug.
This fact, in my opinion, could not raise an inference that the first
accused had pre-planned in furtherance of the common intention in
committing the criminal act in question. I was not convinced that this
fact could prove or raise an inference the first accused had pre-planned
the commission of the criminal act with the deceased.
[73] In evidence, SP6 testified that he asked the first accused: “Mana
barang?” The first accused answered: “Barang ada dalam sarung
plastik hitam di cushion belakang.” One could not conclusively construe
that the word ‘barang’ in the conversation was uttered in reference to
mean ‘cannabis’. The words ‘cannabis’ or ‘buah’ was clearly not used in
the conversation. The word ‘barang’ (thing) could mean anything. One
‘must not take the form of a bare surmise or conjecture or suspicion’
from the circumstances to assume common intention has been proven
(see Ratanlal & Dhirajlal’s, Law of Crimes, 24 th ed., Bharat Law House:
New Delhi, Vol. 1, 123).
[74] The conversation could only prove that the first accused knew
something was inside the plastic bags. The learned counsel for the first

31



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

accused alluded that it was at the behest of the deceased the first
accused sent the barang to the scene of the crime. It was not inherently
incredible that the first accused could have been doing his friend a
favour. The burden was not on the first accused to prove this, but for the
prosecution to prove otherwise. The prosecution also has to prove that
the first accused knew what was inside the plastic bags. The
conversation between SP6 and the first accused could not affirmatively
prove he knew what was inside the plastic bags. Following from there,
an inference that common intention had been proved could not be
established.
[75] The above discussion raises several conceivable inferences which
run counter to an irresistible inference that the first accused knew of the
incriminating drugs or that common intention within the meaning of s. 34
of the Penal Code had been established. It is trite law that when there is
more than one inference which can reasonably be drawn from a set of
facts in a criminal case, the inference most favourable to the accused
should be adopted and accepted (see Yeo Boh Suat & Ors v. Rex
(1948-49) MLJ Supp 105; PP v. Kasmin Bin Soeb [1974] 230; PP v.
Mohd Radzi bin Abu Bakar (supra)).
[76] In the meetings between SP6 and the deceased, the first accused
and the second accused were not present and their names were not
mentioned. The accused persons were not the target of arrest at the
briefing held on 1.8.2012. The target of arrest was the deceased.
[77] Based on the above discussion, this Court was unable to find any
evidence that could raise an inference that common intention was
proved.

32



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[78] Secondly, in Ong Chee Hoe & Anor v. PP [1999] 4 SLR 688, the
Court of Appeal in Singapore stated as follows:
“It was well-settled law that the prosecution did not
need to show that the common intention of the
accused persons was to commit the crime for which
they were charged. It was the intention of the
actual doer of the criminal offence charged that
was in issue, and the application of s. 34 made the
others vicariously liable for the same offence….”
[79] In Mimi Wong & Anor v. PP [1972] 2 MLJ 75, p. 76 (followed in
Ong Chee Hoe), it was held as follows:
“In a criminal prosecution where section 34 of the
Penal Code is invoked and the nature of the offence
depends on a particular intention, the intention of the
actual doer of the criminal act has to be
considered. What this intention is will decide the
offence committed by him and then section 34
applies to make the others vicariously or
collectively liable for the same offence. The
intention that is an ingredient of the offence
constituted by the criminal act is the intention of
the actual doer and must be distinguished from
the common intention of the doer and his
confederates. It may be identical with the common
intention or it may not. Where it is not identical with
the common intention, it must nevertheless be
consistent with the carrying out of the common
intention, otherwise the criminal act done by the actual
doer would not be in furtherance of the common
intention.”
[80] The entire prosecution’s case centred on the meetings and
negotiations between SP6 and the deceased. This evidence clearly

33



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

postulates that the actual doer of the criminal act (ie, trafficking) was
the deceased. The deceased together with the accused persons were
named in the charge, this presupposes that they had in concert
committed the criminal act. However, the actual doer, the deceased,
has passed away, and therefore, there was nolle prosequi against the
deceased. What the deceased’s intention was would decide the offence
committed by him, section 34 shall then follow and be applied to make
the first and second accused persons vicariously or collectively liable for
the same offence. Since the criminal proceeding against the deceased
has been abandoned because the deceased has passed away, how an
inference could now be made out that there was a common intention
when the actual doer’s intention (the deceased’s intention) of committing
the criminal act has been abandoned. As such, the accused persons
could not be vicariously or collectively liable when the proving of the
actual doer’s intention in committing the offence in question has been
abandoned. On this premise, it is unsustainable for the prosecution to
claim s. 34 has been established.
[81] Could the first accused now be the actual doer since the
prosecution has abandoned the prosecution against the deceased? The
answer to this question must be in the negative. Throughout the entire
prosecution’s narrative, the first accused was merely a secondary
character. There was no evidence led to suggest he had played an
active role in the meetings or negotiations or he was within the radar of
the police as a suspected person from the outset.
[82] Unlike s. 34 of the Penal Code where there is need for the intention
of the actual doer of the criminal act to be considered, in cases of a
charge for murder, the requisite in determining the intention of the actual

34



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

doer (who actually or ultimately caused the death of a deceased) of the
offence in question is unnecessary (see PP v. Azilah Bin Hadri & Anor
(supra) at p. 667).
[83] Lastly, the role of the deceased was highly questionable. The
evidence of SP7 and SP8 with regard to the role of the deceased was in
direct contradiction. SP7 testified that the deceased was not a target to
be arrested on that evening; whereas, SP8 told the Court the deceased
was a target to be arrested.
[84] SP6, SP8 and SP10 who attended the briefing on 1.8.2012
confirmed that they were told by SP7 that the target of arrest on that
evening was a person by the named ‘Wan’ (the deceased). But, SP7 in
his testimony claimed that he only mentioned several persons as the
target to be arrested and did not mention any name. SP7 told the Court
the deceased was not a target to be arrested, because he was merely a
‘middle-man’ in the transaction. He also said that at that material time,
he was not sure who the target was.
[85] SP10 was the one who started the police case which eventually
led to the arrest of the accused persons. He was the one who instructed
the informer to arrange a meeting with the deceased. He was the one
who ordered SP6 to be the agent provocateur. In re-examination, he
changed his story. He stated that the role of the deceased was not
important because the deceased had sent someone else to deliver the
incriminating drugs. The deceased was merely a ‘middle-man’, he
claimed. The testimony of SP10 had raised a serious question in my
mind - what was the actual role of the deceased in the prosecution
case?

35



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[86] In the event the deceased was a middle man in the dealing, he
would still be criminally liable for the offence of trafficking. He ought to
have been arrested that evening. SP6, in cross-examination, agreed
that the deceased ought to have been arrested and charged. The
deceased was charged eventually. SP6 told the Court that the
deceased was not a middle-man, he ought to be arrested. The evidence
of SP6 clearly contradicted with what SP7 and SP10 have alluded.
[87] If the policemen had let the deceased go in the belief that he was a
middle man, this connotes the deceased was actually working with the
police. Since he had actively participated in the police case leading to
the arrest of the accused persons, he had played the role of an agent
provocateur, besides SP6, and his evidence would become highly
relevant in the prosecution’s case. Unfortunately, according to the
police, he has passed away. There is a serious gap in the prosecution’s
case. The evidence of SP6 could not be used to fill this gap. If this was
allowed,

the

trial

of

the

accused

persons

would

be

seriously

compromised.
[88] If SP7’s and SP10’s narrative was true, it would be an irony that a
‘middle man’ was charged together with the accused persons. And, an
accused person could not be alleged to be in furtherance of the common
intention with a ‘middle man’ who had acted as an agent provocateur in
committing a criminal act.
[89] Based on the above analysis, this Court found the crucial element
of common intention was not established.

36



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

MALA FIDE PROSECUTION?
[90] The credibility of SP7’s and SP10 was in doubt. Following from
SP7’s and SP10’s statements pertaining to the role of the deceased in
the prosecution’s narrative, this Court viewed with concern an issue
raised by the second accused’s counsel in the cross-examination of
SP11, the investigating officer.
[91] The learned counsel raised the issue that in the witness statement
of SP11 (exhibit P38), he stated, from the outset, the deceased was
under investigation of the criminal act in question. This means the
deceased was supposed to be prosecuted together with the accused
persons right from the beginning. However, in the initial charge against
the accused persons dated 23.2.2014, the deceased was not charged.
The initial charge (exhibit D1B) states as follows:
“Bahawa kamu bersama-sama pada 01hb Ogos 2012
jam lebih kurang 9.30 malam, di hadapan rumah No.
8/90, Ladang Victoria, Padang Serai, di dalam Daera h
Kulim, di dalam Negeri Kedah Darul Aman telah
didapati mengedar dadah berbahaya iaitu Cannabis
seberat 13,995 gram. Oleh yang demikian kamu telah
m e l a k u k a n s a t u k e s a l a h a n di b aw a h s e k s y e n
3 9 B ( 1 ) ( a ) A k t a D a d a h B e r b a h a y a 1 95 2 d a n b o l e h
d i h u k u m di ba w a h s e k s y e n 3 9 B ( 2 ) A k t a y a n g s a m a
d i b a c a b e r s a m a S e ks y e n 3 4 K a nu n K e s ek s a a n . ”

[92] The initial ‘Izin’ dated 3.4.2013 was also produced (exhibit D1A) in
Court. The ‘Izin’ did not mention the deceased or that the deceased was
still at large. A copy of the undated earlier Deputy Public Prosecutor’s
Opening Speech Statement (exhibit D1C) was also produced in Court.
The statement did not mention the deceased was involved or that he

37



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

was still at large. These documents show that the deceased was not
implicated to have committed the criminal act in question together with
the accused persons. However, upon the death of the deceased,
sometime in September 2014, the prosecution changed the initial
charge to the present charge dated 25.2.2015. The prosecution inserted
the wordings for the deceased to be charged together with the accused
persons in the present charge.
[93] In re-examination, SP11 attempted to explain that, initially, he was
under the impression that the deceased was an informer (source) in his
initial investigation. After he had discussed with the former deputy public
prosecutor, he discovered the deceased was involved in the criminal act
in question. He then instructed SP6 to obtain further information on the
deceased, but was unable to make an arrest. SP11 failed to explain
why the he took so long to rectify the mistake, if that was true. No
explanation was given as to why the amendment was done only after the
death of the deceased.
[94] If the deceased was with the police, as advanced earlier, the
failure to call him to give evidence is fatal. If the deceased was to be
charged, but was not charged earlier, this indicates that the present
charge could be tainted with question of mala fide prosecution. In either
scenario, the right of the accused persons to defend themselves has
been compromised.
EVIDENCE IN THE PROSECUTION’S CASE
[95] There were many discrepancies found in the prosecution’s
evidence. Some of these discrepancies were trivial, the Court had

38



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

considered these minor inconsistencies and disregarded them because
they did not discredit or create a doubt in the prosecution’s case.
However, there were several discrepancies which were a cause for
concern for the Court in its assessment of the credibility of the
prosecution’s witnesses.
[96] First, an agent provocateur’s evidence needs no corroboration
unless it is inherently incredible. In this instant case, SP6, as an agent
provocateur, testified that after he had shouted “Police”, within 10 to 15
seconds, he had left the scene with officer Ajib. He also testified that he
was not present when SP7 searched the Kancil. However, paragraph 3
of the search list (exhibit P36), listed all the officers who were present at
the time the search was conducted, and it stated SP6 (police number
116541) and officer Ajib (police number 91817) were present. Contrary
to that, SP7 in cross-examination told the court that when he was
searching the Kancil for incriminating drugs at that material time, SP6
had left the place. Ironically, the search list was prepared by SP7
himself.
[97] Secondly, SP6 also testified that he did not witness the ambush
took place. However, SP7 told the Court, during cross-examination,
SP6 was around when he and his officers arrived at the scene, which
means SP6 was present at the time of the ambush. SP7 said
approximately a minute later SP6 left the scene. In the testimony of
SP8, during cross examination, he testified that SP6 was still at the
scene after the second accused was arrested. In re-examination, he
testified that when he handed the first accused to SP7, SP6 was still
around at the scene. This means SP6 was still at the scene after both

39



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

accused persons were arrested, which also means SP6 was at the
scene for more than 2 minutes after he had shouted “Police”.
[98] Thirdly, SP8 told the Court that he saw both SP6 and the
deceased talking outside their cars. However, SP7 said he saw the
deceased go into SP6’s car, and later SP6 go into the Kancil not long
after the Kancil arrived. Neither the evidence of SP6 nor SP7 supported
what SP8 saw. Clearly, the evidence of SP6 and SP7 were inconsistent
with the evidence of SP8.
[99] Lastly, the contradictory evidence pertaining to the role of the
deceased as highlighted above is so serious that it struck the core of the
prosecution’s case as to who was the actual doer of the criminal act in
question. This conflicting evidence goes to the root of proving common
intention within s. 34 of the Penal Code. This contradictory evidence has
led the Court to question the credibility of the prosecution’s witnesses.
[100] In summary, the evidence from the prosecution’s witnesses
pertaining to what had transpired on that evening was clearly
contradictory. The contradictory evidence of SP6, SP7, SP8 and SP10
had resulted in a serious doubt in the prosecution’s case. The
contradictory evidence has affected the weight to the evidence relied on
by the prosecution in support of proving the ingredients of the offence. It
also affected the ability of the Court to use such evidence to draw any
credible inferences in support of the prosecution’s case.

40



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

Decision
[101] This Court, after having sieved through the prosecution’s evidence
and after having exercised a maximum or positive evaluation of the
prosecution’s case, found the following serious gaps or contradictions in
the prosecution’s evidence disquieting: Firstly, the role of the deceased
as ventilated above. Secondly, the unsatisfactory explanation pertaining
to the discrepancy of the initial charge and the present charge. Thirdly,
the serious discrepancies of evidence in regard to what had transpired
on that evening of 1.8.2012. Fourthly, the failure to prove common
intention within the meaning of s. 34 of the Penal Code. Fifthly, the
evidence of SP6, SP7, SP8 and SP10 in regard to their accounts of the
prosecution’s narrative was questionable. Lastly, all the above issues
affected the Court’s assessment of the credibility of the prosecution’s
witnesses. The prosecution’s evidence in support of the quantum of
proof to establish a prima facie case was unreliable. Hence, the Court
was not convinced to rely on the prosecution’s evidence to raise an
inference of knowledge of the accused persons of the incriminating
drugs. On a maximum evaluation of the prosecution’s evidence, the
ingredients of the offence of trafficking under s. 39B(1)(a) of DDA was
not established by the prosecution at the close of the prosecution’s case.
[102] Based on the above, this Court was of the considered view that the
prosecution has failed to make out a prima facie case. Hence,
according to s. 180(2) of the CPC, this Court was required to record an
order of acquittal against the accused persons.

41



[2015] 1 LNS 668

Legal Network Series

[103] On 13.7.2015, this Court thereby ordered the first accused, Encik
Mohd Hishamuddin Bin Mohd Razak, and the second accused, Azrul
Anuar Bin Osman, be discharged and acquitted forthwith from the
charge against them.

Dated: 15 JULY 2015

(CHOO KAH SING)
Judicial Commissioner
High Court, Alor Setar.
Counsel:
For the deputy public prosecutor - Naizatul Zima Tajudin; DPP
Negeri Kedah
For the first accused - Ali Munawar Razak; M/s Ali & Fariz
For the second accused - Rahamathullah Baharudeen; M/s Rahamat
& Mashuri

42

