[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MALAYA AT SHAH ALAM
IN THE STATE OF SELANGOR, MALAYSIA
[CRIMINAL TRIAL NO: 45A-117-10/2015]
BETWEEN
PENDAKWA RAYA
AND
BALA MURUGAN RAMASAMY
(NO KAD PENGENALAN: 771110-14-6509)

CRIMINAL LAW: Dangerous drugs - Trafficking - Possession - Accused
was allegedly carrying plastic bag that contained drugs - Whether
accused had physical custody or control of white plastic bag - Whether
presumption of possession under s. 37(d) Dangerous Drugs Act 1952
applicable - Whether prima facie case of trafficking against accused
proven
EVIDENCE: Documentary evidence - Admissibility - CCTV footage CCTV footage marked as IDD - Whether CCTV footage could be
accepted as evidence
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Police officer - Investigating officer Offence that attracts capital punishment - Breach of duty - Failure to
properly view CCTV recording - Whether investigating officer has a duty
to undertake a thorough investigation of cases assigned to him - Whether
investigating officer is required to be diligent, truthful and fair in his
investigation - Whether breach of duty by investigating officer could be

1



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

fatal to prosecution’s case - Whether failure on part of investigating
officer to properly view CCTV recording warranted an inference in
favour of accused
[Prosecution had failed to prove prima facie case. The accused was
acquitted and discharged of both offences.]
Case(s) referred to:
Lee Kwan Woh v. PP [2009] 5 CLJ 631 FC (refd)
Looi Kow Chai & Anor v. PP [2003] 1 CLJ 734 CA (refd)
Ong Ah Chuan v. PP & Koh Chai Cheng v. PP [1980] 1 LNS 181 PC
(refd)
PP v. Chia Leong Foo [2000] 4 CLJ 649 HC (refd)
PP v. Lee Jun Ho & Ors [2009] 4 CLJ 90 HC (refd)
PP v. Mohd Radzi Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457 FC (refd)
PP v. Muhammad Nasir b Shaharudin [1994] 2 MLJ 576 (refd)
Rahmani Ali Mohamad v. PP [2014] 7 CLJ 405 CA (refd)
Tai Chai Keh v. Public Prosecutor [1948] 1 LNS 122 CA (refd)
Teh Hock Leong v. PP [2008] 4 CLJ 764 CA (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Criminal Procedure Code, s. 180
Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, ss. 2, 39B(1)(a),(2), First Schedule

2



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

JUDGMENT
[1]

The accused, Bala Murugan, was charged with two offences of
trafficking under section 39B(1)(a) of the Dangerous Drugs Act
1952 (“the Act”) and punishable under section 39B(2) of the
same Act. The amended charges against him read:
Amended First charge
Bahawa kamu pada 17 Mac 2015, jam lebih kurang 7.45
malam, bertempat di tepi jalan PJS 1/50, Petaling Utama
Avenue, Taman Petaling Utama, di dalam Daerah Petaling,
di dalam Negeri Selangor Darul Ehsan telah mengedar
dadah berbahaya sejumlah 135.3 gram (128.8 gram Heroin
dan 6.5 gram Monoacetylmorphines) dan dengan itu kamu
telah melakukan suatu kesalahan di bawah Seksyen 39B
(1) Akta Dadah Berbahaya 1952 yang boleh dihukum di
bawah Seksyen 39B (2) Akta Dadah Berbahaya 1952.”
Amended Second charge
Bahawa kamu pada 17 Mac 2015, jam lebih kurang 7.45
malam, bertempat di tepi jalan PJS1/50, Petaling Utama
Avenue, Taman Petaling Utama, di dalam Daerah Petaling,
di dalam Negeri Selangor Darul Ehsan telah mengedar
dadah berbahaya jenis Methamphetamine dengan berat
69.23 gram dan dengan itu kamu telah melakukan suatu
kesalahan di bawa Seksyen 39B(a) Akta Dadah Berbahaya
1952 yang boleh dihukum di bawah Seksyen 39B(2) Akta
Dadah Berbahaya 1952.”

Case for the prosecution

3



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

[2]

The prosecution called 3 witnesses to prove the charge.
According to the prosecution evidence, acting on receiving
information at about 5 pm on 17 March 2015, DSP Mohd Husni
bin Manaf (PW1) (“DSP Husni”) led a team of 10 Narcotics
Officers to a row of shops at PJS 1/50 Petaling Utama Avenue,
Taman Petaling Utama, Petaling Jaya. The raiding team reached
there at about 7.30 pm. A motorcycle bearing registration
number WKX 1423 was parked outside a shop called Sinar
Jernih Sdn Bhd (“Sinar Jernih”). The team split into four groups
and took position.

[3]

DSP Husni testified that at about 7.45 pm, the accused emerged
from a lane beside Sinar Jernih carrying a plastic bag (exhibit
P10) in his right hand and walking towards the motorcycle. At
this juncture, he raiding team pounced on him and arrested him
and seized the plastic bag. Inside the bag were 5 brown
envelopes (exhibit P11 [A to E]) and a small purple plastic bag
(exhibit P13). In each of the envelopes was a clear plastic packet
(exhibit P11 [A1 to E1]) that contained substance suspected to
be drugs. And, in the purple plastic bag were two clear plastic
packets (exhibits P13 [1 and 2]) that contained substance also
suspected to be drugs. The police also seized a mobile phone,
the motorcycle, a crash helmet and a bunch of keys.

[4]

The accused was taken to the Klang police station together with
the exhibits. There, DSP Husni labelled the exhibits by writing
the date and placing his signature on them. At about 9 pm, he
handed the accused and the exhibits seized to Investigating
Officer, Inspector Cairun Niza binti Mohamed (PW2) (“the
investigating officer”).

[5]

DSP Husni was subjected to lengthy cross examination. Cross
examination of DSP Husni was aimed at establishing that his

4



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

version of the facts was not correct. It was put to DSP Husni
that the accused parked his motorcycle in front of Sinar Jernih
on arriving there and waited along the corridor of the said shop.
A few minutes later, a car approached the place of incident and
stopped near the accused’s motorcycle and the accused got into
the front passenger seat of the car and sat in the car with the
driver for about 15 minutes. It was further put to DSP Husni that
the accused subsequently alighted from the car and was walking
in the direction of a toilet located in the lane beside Sinar
Jernih, when the police surrounded and arrested him.
[6]

DSP Husni vehemently denied each and every one of the above
suggestions and maintained what he had said in examination-inchief. He further denied that the drugs were recovered from the
driver of the car, one called “Rashid”.

[7]

Returning to the narrative, the Investigating Officer confirmed
receiving the seized exhibits from DSP Husni. She added that
she made her own markings on the exhibits, and the exhibits
suspected to be drugs were sealed in a box and sent to
government chemist, Norhaya binti Jaafar (PW3) for chemical
analysis who confirmed that the substance in the brown
envelopes contained 128.8 grammes of heroin and 6.5 grammes
of monoacetylmorphines and the substance in the purple plastic
bag contained 69.23 grammes of methamphetamine, a dangerous
drug listed in the First Schedule of the Act.

[8]

The Investigating Officer was also subjected to lengthy cross
examination. She was asked if she had obtained any CCTV
footage of the incident from Sinar Jernih. She confirmed that
she was given a copy of the footage but explained that it was not
produced at the trial as evidence as it did not show anything
relevant to the case as the front of the building where the

5



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

accused parked his motorcycle and arrested was not captured in
the footage.
[9]

The defence then played a CCTV footage (IDD 23) it had
obtained from Sinar Jernih. The Investigating Officer confirmed
that the footage was identical to the one she had viewed at Sinar
Jernih except that the footage at Sinar Jernih was a little dark.
The Investigating Officer accepted that, contrary to her
evidence, IDD23 showed the front of the building. She also
accepted that it showed the accused getting into a car that came
and stopped near the motorcycle, and that the accused was still
in the car at 7.45 pm. She further accepted that it showed that
the accused alighting from the car after 7.45 pm and walking
towards the lane beside Sinar Jernih, not carrying anything in
his hands.

[10] That essentially was the evidence for the prosecution.
Burden on prosecution
[11] The burden on the prosecution at the close of the prosecution
case to make out a prima facie case is encapsulated in section
180 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Section 180 was discussed
and elucidated by the Court of Appeal in Looi Kow Chai & Anor
v. PP [2003] 2 MLJ 65 as follows:
It is the duty of a judge sitting alone to determine at the
close of the prosecution’s case, as a trier of fact, whether
the prosecution has made out a prima facie case…..It
therefore follows that there is only one exercise that a
judge sitting alone under s. 180 of the CPC has to
undertake at the close of the prosecution case. He must
subject the prosecution evidence to maximum evaluation

6



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

and to ask himself the question: if I decide to call upon the
accused to enter his defence and he elects to remain silent,
am I prepared to convict him on the totality of the
evidence contained in the prosecution case? If the answer
is in the negative then no prima facie case has been made
out and the accused would be entitled to an acquittal.
[12] In PP v. Mohd Radzi bin Abu Bakar [2006] 1 CLJ 457, the
Federal Court echoed the same view:
What is required of a subordinate court and the High Court
under the amended sections is to call for the defence when
it is satisfied that a prima facie case has been made out at
the close of the prosecution case. This requires the court to
undertake a maximum evaluation of the prosecution
evidence when deciding whether to call on the accused to
enter upon his or her defence. It involves an assessment of
the credibility of the witnesses called by the prosecution
and the drawing of inferences admitted by the prosecution
evidence. Thus, if the prosecution evidence admits of two
or more inferences, one of which is in the accused’s
favour, then it is the duty of the court to draw the
inference that is favourable to the accused…… If the
court, upon a maximum evaluation of the evidence placed
before it at the close of the prosecution case, comes to the
conclusion that a prima facie case has not been made out,
it should acquit the accused. If, on the other hand, the
court after conducting a maximum evaluation of the
evidence comes to the conclusion that a prima facie case
has been made out, it must call for the defence. If the
accused then elects to remain silent, the court must
proceed to convict him. It is not open to the court to then
re-assess the evidence and to determine whether the
7



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

prosecution had established its case beyond a reasonable
doubt. The absence of any evidence from the accused that
casts a reasonable doubt on the prosecution’s case renders
the prima facie case one that is established beyond a
reasonable doubt. Put shortly, what the trial court is
obliged to do under ss. 173(f) and 180 of the CPC is to ask
itself the question: If the accused elects to remain silent,
as he is perfectly entitled to do, am I prepared to convict
him on the evidence now before me? … If the answer to
that question is in the affirmative, then the defence must
be called. And if the accused remains silent, he must be
convicted. If the answer is in the negative, then the
accused must be acquitted.

8



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

Statutory provisions and Case Law
[13] For convenience, I set out the material sections of the Act on
which the prosecution relied on to prove the charges, or which
are otherwise material to this case.
[14] The charges against the accused were framed under section
39B(1)(a) of the Act which provided:
(1)

No person shall, on his own behalf or on behalf of
any other person, whether or not such other person is
in Malaysia –
(a)

traffic in a dangerous drug;

(b)

…

(c)

…

[15] The definition of trafficking is set out in section 2 of the Act:
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
trafficking includes the doing any of the following acts,
that is to say, manufacturing, importing, exporting,
keeping, concealing, buying, selling, giving, receiving,
storing, administering, transporting, carrying, sending,
delivering, procuring, supplying or distributing any
dangerous drug otherwise than under the authority of this
Act or the regulations made under the Act.
[16] It is settled case law that to sustain a charge of trafficking under
section 2 of the Act, the prosecution must first prove that the
accused had possession of the drugs. Possession is essential as
unless an accused had possession or custody or control of the
drug, he would not be in a position to traffic in the same. In this

9



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

regard, Augustine Paul J in Public Prosecutor v. Chia Leong
Foo [2000] 6 MLJ 705, explained:
It must be observed that most of the acts that constitute
trafficking as defined in section 2 of the Act like, for
example, keeping, concealing, storing, transporting, and
carrying dangerous drugs involve the prerequisite element
of possession … It follows that a person cannot keep,
conceal, store, transport, or carry dangerous drugs within
the meaning of trafficking in the Act without being in the
possession of them
[17] The meaning of possession for the purposes of the Act is well
established. It has been held that there were two elements to
possession. There was the physical element, and the mental
element. The physical element involved proof that the thing was
in the physical custody of the accused or subject to his control.
The mental element involved proof that the accused had
knowledge he was in possession of drugs. In PP v. Muhammad
Nasir b Shaharudin [1994] 2 MLJ 576, the court explained:
Possession is not defined in the DDA. However, it is now
firmly established that to constitute possession, it is
necessary to establish that: (a) the person had knowledge
of the drugs; and (b) that the person had some form of
control or custody of the drugs. To prove either of these
two requirements, the prosecution may either adduce direct
evidence or it may rely on the relevant presumptions under
s. 37 of the DDA.
[18] It is also settled law that an accused who commits the acts
mentioned in the definition of trafficking in section 2 of the Act,
[e.g., transporting or carrying the drugs in his possession] would
not be a trafficker unless the purpose of the act was for the
10



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

distribution of the drugs to another. See Teh Hock Leong v.
Public Prosecutor [2010] 1 MLJ 741 and Ong Ah Chuan v. PP &
Koh Chai Cheng v. PP [1981] 1 MLJ 64.
Ingredients of the Offence
[19] It is clear from the foregoing that to prove the charge, it was
incumbent on the prosecution to prove:
First charge
i.

that the substance found in the five brown envelopes
was drugs within the definition of section 2 of the
Act:

ii.

that the accused person had possession of the drugs
i.e., he had custody and control of the drugs and
knowledge that it was dangerous drugs; and

iii.

that the drugs were in the possession of the accused
for the purpose of trafficking.

Second charge
i.

that the substance found in the purple plastic bag was
drugs within the definition of section 2 of the Act:

ii.

that the accused person had possession of the drugs
i.e. he had custody and control of the drugs and
knowledge that it was dangerous drugs; and

iii.

that the drugs were in the possession of the accused
for the purpose of trafficking.

[20] I turn now to examine the evidence led by the prosecution to
prove the ingredients of both the offences.
11



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

Whether the substance was dangerous drugs within the definition
of section 2 of the Act
[21] As regards ingredient (i), there was clear evidence that the drugs
analysed by Norhaya binti Jaafar were the drugs recovered from
the plastic bag. The prosecution relied on Norhaya’s evidence to
prove the identity and weight of the drugs. Her unchallenged
evidence established that the substance recovered from the
envelopes and purple plastic bag contained 135.3 grammes of
heroin and monoacetylmorphines and 69.23 grammes of
methamphetamine, respectively, which were dangerous drugs as
listed in the First Schedule of the Act
Whether the accused had possession of the dangerous drugs
[22] The prosecution sought to rely solely on the evidence of DSP
Husni to prove that the accused had physical possession of the
plastic bag that contained the drugs. The learned deputy public
prosecutor accepted that the CCTV footage produced in Court, if
admissible, was damning of DSP Husni’s credibility and
inconsistent with the prosecution’s narration of the facts. She
contended, however, that the CCTV footage could not be
accepted as evidence at the end of the prosecution’s case as it
was still marked as IDD and had not been properly proved.
[23] In my view, the submission was without merit as the
Investigating Officer had accepted that IDD23 was identical to
the footage she had viewed at Sinar Jernih. I therefore ruled that
it was admissible. The CCTV footage showed DSP Husni’s
version of the facts was inaccurate and it would be unsafe to
accept his evidence that the accused was caught carrying the
plastic bag that contained drugs. As there was no other evidence
to show that the accused was carrying the said plastic bag, I

12



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

found that the prosecution had failed to prove that the drugs
were in the possession of the accused.
[24] There was one other point raised by counsel for the accused
which should be mentioned. It had to do with the adequacy of
the investigation conducted by the Investigating Officer in this
case. In this connection, it is instructive to refer to the
observation by Apandi Ali J (as his Lordship then was) in PP v.
Lee Jun Ho & Ors [2009] 4 CLJ 90, wherein it was stated:
“Where if it is available and could have been made
available and made the subject of scrutiny of the Trier-offact but was not, this represents a conduct that a party
ought not to take advantage of, for it would prevent the
accused from the advantage of all available materials
whose value may assist the accused or the Trier-of-fact by
presenting the evidence in all possible light. This is
pertinent especially where the evidence may be potentially
execulpating. Therefore this could have been a piece of
exculpatory evidence to which the prosecution have denied
the accused. It is submitted that the burden is not placed
upon the defense to prove the case of the prosecution, but
the onus of proof lies solely upon the prosecution.”
[25] In the instant case, the Investigating Officer in her evidence
explained that she did not undertake any further investigation in
relation to the CCTV footage as it did not show the front view
of the building where the incident took place. However, under
cross examination it became patently clear that this was untrue.
The front view of the building was captured in the CCTV
recording. Obviously, the Investigating Officer had either failed
to properly view the CCTV recording or had some other motive
for not producing it in Court.

13



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

[26] It has been repeatedly stressed in the case law that the
Investigating Officer has a duty to undertake a thorough
investigation of the cases assigned to him, especially when it
comes to offences that attract capital punishment. The
iInvestigating Officer is required to be diligent, truthful and fair
in his investigation. He must not withhold evidence. A breach of
this duty, intentionally or otherwise, can be fatal to the case of
the prosecution.
[27] A CCTV recording that may have captured the commission of an
offence is critical evidence and the Investigating Officer must
view it properly as it could contain evidence that could
exonerate an accused person or prove his guilt.
[28] Counsel for the accused contended, and I agreed, that the failure
on the part of the Investigating Officer to properly view the
CCTV recording warranted an inference in favour of the accused
as his right to a fair trial was compromised by this failure. In my
view, the present case is a glaring example of irresponsible
investigation. If a proper investigation had been undertaken by
the Investigating Officer, it would have cast doubt on DSP
Husni’s evidence and exonerated the accused. See Lee Kwan
Woh v. PP [2009] 5 CLJ 631 and Rahmani Ali Mohamad [2014]
7 CLJ 405.
[29] In the oft quoted case of Tai Chai Keh v. Public Prosecutor
[1948-49] MLJ Supp 105 the Malayan Court of Appeal
explained:
Where there is more than one inference which can
reasonably be drawn from a set of facts in a criminal case,
we are of opinion that the inference most favorable to the
accused should be adopted.

14



[2017] 1 LNS 2044

Legal Network Series

[30] For the reasons stated, I found that the prosecution had failed to
prove a prima facie case against the accused. The accused was
accordingly acquitted and discharged of both offences.
Dated: 30 NOVEMBER 2017
(SM KOMATHY SUPPIAH)
Judicial Commissioner
High Court of Malaya
Shah Alam

15

