678

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

PP v. BILLION NOVA SDN BHD & ORS

A

HIGH COURT SABAH & SARAWAK, MIRI
STEPHEN CHUNG J
[CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO: MYY-44-4-9-2013]
29 SEPTEMBER 2014
B

CRIMINAL LAW: Money laundering – Forfeiture – Application to forfeit
properties seized – Allegation that first respondent sold cigarettes and liquor to buyers
outside duty free port to unknown buyers in Malaysia – Deposits made into first
respondent’s account were stated as ‘cash sale-cigarette’ – First respondent transferred
several big sums of money into accounts of third, fourth and fifth respondents –
Whether respondents engaged in money laundering which entitled prosecution to
seize and to forfeit sums in bank accounts – Anti-Money Laundering and AntiTerrorism Financing Act 2001, ss. 56(1), 61(2) – Customs Act 1967, ss. 135(1)(g),
155(1)(b)
In the present application, the Public Prosecutor (‘PP’) applied under
ss. 56(1) and 61(2) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism
Financing Act 2001 (‘AMLATFA’) to forfeit the properties belonging to the
respondents in 25 bank accounts amounting to RM1,340,737.10, which have
been seized under s. 56(1) of the same Act. The sum had been obtained as
a result of alleged smuggling activities carried out by the respondents. The
PP did not institute any prosecution against the respondents for any offence
and none of them had been convicted for any offence under the Customs Act
1967 (‘the Act’). The PP submitted that based on investigation by the
investigating officer (‘IO’), the first respondent sold cigarettes and liquor to
buyers at a place outside Labuan, which was an offence under s. 135(1)(g)
of the Act. Sixteen deposits made into the first respondent’s account were
stated as ‘cash sale-cigarette’. The first respondent then transferred several
big sums of money from its account into the accounts of the third, fourth and
fifth respondents which totalled up to RM1,044,480. According to the PP,
the respondents could not explain why the accounts did not tally with the
buyers’ account and statements. The first respondent had allegedly exported
or sold duty free cigarettes from Labuan to unknown buyers in Malaysia.
The proceeds from the sales were paid in Miri and Kota Kinabalu and the
PP submitted that the acts of the respondents in failing to pay tax for the sales
formed a case of smuggling and contravened s. 135(1)(g) of the Act. The
issues that arose for the court’s determination were: (i) whether the
respondents sold the cigarettes in contravention of the Act or were engaged
in money laundering which entitled the PP to seize and to forfeit the sums
in the bank account; and (ii) whether the cigarettes were sold and delivered
to the purchasers in Labuan.

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

679

Held (dismissing application):
(1) The freezing or seizures of the accounts were set aside. The PP failed
to establish, on a balance of probabilities, that the respondents were
involved in money laundering or in unlawful activities or that the
proceeds in the bank accounts were or are the proceeds from unlawful
activities or for the purpose of money laundering. (para 53)
(2) There was no explanation as to why the second respondent was included
in this application. The PP did not seize any bank account of the second
respondent and had not applied to forfeit any money in any bank
account of the second respondent. There was no evidence led that the
second respondent was involved in selling duty free cigarettes or
involved in smuggling them or that he was involved in money
laundering. The application against the second respondent ought to be
struck out. (para 35)
(3) Although the PP contended that based on documents exhibited, the
cigarettes were sold outside Labuan, no direct evidence was led that the
first respondent and/or the other respondents had transported or
exported duty free cigarettes from Labuan which were sold in Miri or
Kota Kinabalu. There was also no evidence led that the cigarettes were
sold in Malaysia and that they were intended to evade customs or import
duty. (para 36)
(4) There was no evidence that the cigarettes in the 16 transactions
described as ‘cash sale-cigarette’ which the IO said were paid for in
Miri, were sold or delivered to the purchasers outside Labuan or in Miri
or Kota Kinabalu. Furthermore, the PP did not refer to any provision
or regulations under the Act or any legislation that duty free cigarettes
sold in Labuan must be paid in Labuan or could not be paid for in Miri
or elsewhere. Similarly, the PP did not refer to any Bank Negara
regulations or directives that duty free cigarettes sold in Labuan must be
paid in Labuan or could not be paid in Miri or Kota Kinabalu.
(paras 39 & 41)
(5) There is no provision in the Act against any sale outside Labuan. Section
155(1)(b) of the Act provides that no export duty shall be payable upon
any goods exported from Labuan. If the goods were imported or
transported to Malaysia from Labuan or Langkawi, then s. 155(1)(c)
provides that import duty shall be payable upon all dutiable goods
transported to the principal customs area from Labuan or Langkawi to
all intents as if such transportation to the principal customs area were
importation into Malaysia (para 42).
(6) The IO did not affirm that he is or was an accountant or an expert in
accounts or auditing or accounting or forensic accounting. The IO did
not connect with each ‘cash sale-cigarette’ or each transaction or sale of
cigarettes to each smuggling of cigarettes or unlawful sales of cigarettes



680

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

or which were in contravention of the Act. The PP did not exhibit any
report by any accountant or expert to trace or connect the entries in the
ledgers or accounts with any smuggling of cigarettes or unlawful sales of
cigarettes or that these proceeds or payments were derived from
unlawful activities or for money laundering (para 50).

A

(7) The IO did not produce any report from the Inland Revenue or Tax
Department that the respondents had evaded income tax or other taxes
which contravened any law. There was no report by Bank Negara or any
other banks that these bank accounts or the proceeds in the bank
accounts were involved in money laundering. Hence, the PP could not
show that the transactions or payments into the bank accounts of the
third, fourth and fifth respondents were proceeds from unlawful
activities (paras 50 & 51).

B

Case(s) referred to:
PP v. Dragcom Sdn Bhd & Ors and Other Cases [2013] 10 CLJ 628 HC (refd)
PP v. V Alexandra a/l Chako Vanglise (and another case) [2010] 8 AMR 159 (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Anti-Money Laundering and Anti Terrorism Financing Act 2001, ss. 2(1), (2),
4(1), 50(1), 56(1), (2), (3), (4), 61(2), (4)
Customs Act 1967, ss. 119, 135(1)(g), 154, 155(1)(a), (b), (c), 158, 163A, 163B(1)(a),
(b)
Sales Tax Act 1972, s. 73(a)

C

D

E

For the applicant - Noor Zalizan Lazarous (Aida Mastura with her); DPPs
For the respondents - Arthur CA Lee; M/s Arthur CA Lee & Partners, Advocates

Reported by Najib Tamby

F

JUDGMENT
Stephen Chung J:
[1]
On 19 September 2013, by a notice of motion, the applicant applied
to the High Court at Miri, that the properties belonging to the respondents
in twenty-five (25) bank accounts in Labuan and Miri, which have been
seized under s. 50(1) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism
Financing Act 2001 (AMLATFA) (‘Act 613’), be forfeited under s. 56(1) and
s. 61(2) of the Act.
[2]
In the application it was stated that the Public Prosecutor (PP) was
satisfied that the properties seized by the investigation officer (Penguasa
Kastam Ahmad bin Talib) (referred to as the IO) from the ‘Polis DiRaja
Malaysia on 25 June 2012’ were properties that had been obtained as a result
of or in connection with an offence under s. 4(1) of Act 613. On 4 August
2014 the applicant applied to amend this statement to read instead as the
‘Kastam Di Raja Malaysia on 21 September 2012’. The respondents did not
object to this amendment and the court allowed the amendment.

G

H

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

681

[3]
Based on the affidavits, the monies in the 25 bank accounts amounting
to RM1,340,737.10 were seized on 21 September 2012. The PP did not
institute any prosecution against any of the five respondents for any offence
and none of them has been convicted for any offence under Act 613 nor
under the Customs Act 1967. However it was contended that these sums had
been obtained as a result of or in connection with smuggling activities carried
out by the respondents. The PP accordingly applied under s. 56(1) of Act 613
that the monies in the 25 bank accounts be forfeited because such properties
had been obtained as a result of or in connection with an offence of money
laundering under s. 4(1) of the Act.
[4]
Reading the application, affidavits and submissions, the PP submitted
that based on an investigation conducted by the IO the first respondent sold
cigarettes and liquor to buyers where the transactions occurred at a place
outside Labuan and that the respondents had committed an offence under
s.135(1)(g) of the Customs Act by knowingly being concerned in fraudulent
evasion or attempt at fraudulent evasion of customs duty or in evasion or
attempt at evasion of any prohibition of import or export. The grounds of the
application were set out in the affidavit in support of the IO affirmed on
18 September 2013 (‘first affidavit’) and in another affidavit also affirmed on
the same date and time marked as exh. ‘AT10(4)’ (‘second affidavit’).
[5]
It must be stated that the marking of the exhibits by the PP was
confusing. The exhibits attached to the first affidavit of the IO were marked
as exhs. ‘AT1’, ‘AT8 2’, ‘AT3(a) to (o)’, ‘AT4(a)-(b)’, ‘AT5’, ‘AT6’, ‘AT7’,
‘AT8’, ‘AT9’ and ‘AT10 (1) to (4)’. The second affidavit of the IO which
was affirmed on the same date and time was annexed to the first affidavit and
marked as exh. ‘AT10 (4)’. However the exhibits attached to the second
affidavit were similarly marked as exhs. ‘AT1’ until ‘AT8’. When the IO
referred to exh. ‘AT1’, he did not explain which ‘AT1’ he was referring to.
Any exhibits to be marked must be in running numbers and not be repeated
to avoid confusion.
[6]
Further, the PP exhibited about 1,000 pages of the ledgers, trial
balances and balance sheets of the first respondent annexed to the affidavits
of the IO. However there was no pagination for easy reference. When the IO
referred to a certain entry or entries in the ledger, he did not refer to the page
where the entries appeared in the ledger, the significance of the entries and
whether these involved or were connected with money laundering.
[7]
Act 613 is an Act to provide for the offence of money laundering, the
measures to be taken for the prevention of money laundering and terrorism
financing offences and to provide for the forfeiture of terrorist property and
property involved in, or derived from, money laundering and terrorism
financing offences, and for matters incidental thereto and connected
therewith. Section 2(1) states that this Act shall apply to any serious offence,
foreign serious offence or unlawful activity whether committed before or
after the commencement date of this Act. “Serious offence” means any of the



682

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

offences specified in the Second Schedule or an attempt to commit any of
those offences or the abetment of any of those offences. Section 135 of the
Customs Act has been included in the Second Schedule as one of the serious
offences. Section 2(2) provides that this Act shall apply to any property,
whether it is situated in or outside Malaysia.

A

[8]
Section 4(1) of Act 613 provides for an offence of money laundering
which states that any person who (a) engages in, or attempts to engage in; or
(b) abets the commission of, money laundering, commits an offence. In the
definition section, money laundering is defined as the act of a person who:

B

(a) engages, directly or indirectly, in a transaction that involves
proceeds of any unlawful activity;

C

(b) acquires, receives, possesses, disguises, transfers, converts,
exchanges, carries, disposes, uses, removes from or brings into
Malaysia proceeds of any unlawful activity; or
(c) conceals, disguises or impedes the establishment of the true nature,
origin, location, movement, disposition, title of, rights with respect
to, or ownership of, proceeds of any unlawful activity;

D

where:
(aa) as may be inferred from objective factual circumstance, the
person knows or has reason to believe, that the property is
proceeds from any 1 unlawful activity; or
(bb) in respect of the conduct of a natural person, the person without
reasonable excuse fails to take reasonable steps to ascertain
whether or not the property is proceeds from any unlawful
activity ...

[9]
There are two parts in this definition. Firstly, the act of a person who
inter alia engages in a transaction that involves proceeds of any unlawful
activity or receives proceeds of any unlawful activity and secondly he knows
or has reason to believe that the property is proceeds from any unlawful
activity or fails to take reasonable steps to ascertain whether or not the
property is proceeds from any unlawful activity. The burden is on the PP to
prove both these ingredients using the standard of proof required in civil
proceedings: see s. 56(4) of Act 613; Pendakwa Raya v. V Alexandra a/l Chako
Vanglise (and another case) [2010] 8 AMR 159.
[10] Under s. 56(1), in respect of any property frozen or seized under this
Act where there is no prosecution or conviction for an offence under
sub-s. 4(1) or a terrorism financing offence, the Public Prosecutor may,
before the expiration of 12 months from the date of the freeze or seizure,
apply to a judge of the High Court for an order of forfeiture of that property
if he is satisfied that such property had been obtained as a result of or in
connection with an offence under sub-s. 4(1) or a terrorism financing offence,
as the case may be, or is terrorist property.

E

F

G

H

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

683

[11] Section 56(2) states that the judge to whom an application is made
under sub-s. (1) shall make an order for the forfeiture of the property if he
is satisfied:
(a) that the property is the subject matter of or was used in the commission
of an offence under sub-s. 4(1) or a terrorism financing offence or is
terrorist property;
(b) that there is no purchaser in good faith for valuable consideration in
respect of the property.

C

D

E

F

Under s. 56(3) any property that has been seized and in respect of which no
application is made under sub-s. (1) shall, at the expiration of 12 months
from the date of its seizure, be released to the person from whom it was
seized. The bank accounts were seized on 21 September 2012 and this
application for forfeiture was made on 19 September 2013. There was no
objection or complaint by the respondents that it was outside the 12 months
as provided in s. 56 of Act 613: see PP v. Dragcom Sdn Bhd & Ors and Other
Cases [2013] 10 CLJ 628; [2013] 5 MLJ 594.
[12] Under s. 61(2) of Act 613 the judge to whom an application is made
under s. 56(1) shall cause to be published a notice in the Gazette calling upon
any third party who claims to have any interest in the property to attend
before the court on the date specified in the notice to show cause as to why
the property shall not be forfeited. After the Gazette was published, no third
party had come forward to claim any of the monies in these accounts except
the respondents who held these accounts. Therefore the provisions of s. 61(4)
are not applicable to this application for the forfeiture of the proceeds in these
25 accounts.
[13] In his first affidavit, the IO affirmed that the first respondent was
incorporated with an address in Labuan and with its business to import and
export beers, liquors and cigarettes. The other respondents were the
shareholders and directors of the first respondent (see exh. ‘AT1’).

G

H

I

[14] He affirmed that from his investigation the 1st respondent had bought
cigarettes from two companies ie, Lihan Trading and Syarikat Jayapuri in
Miri to be sold in Labuan. He said that under s. 154 and s. 155(1)(a) of the
Customs Act, Labuan is a duty free port, all cigarettes imported into Labuan
were accorded with the status ‘Malaysia Duty Not Paid’ and such cigarettes
could only be sold in Labuan. He said any cigarettes transported or exported
from Labuan into Malaysia would be subject to duties under s. 155(1)(c) of
the Customs Act. There are similar provisions in ss. 163A and 163B in
respect of the duty free status of Langkawi.
[15] The IO affirmed that from his investigation there were 82 payments
made into the first respondent’s bank account bearing no. 3-0659180-25 at
Public Bank in Labuan. Out of these, 81 payments were made via Public
Bank in Miri and one via Public Bank in Kota Kinabalu. He said these 82



684

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

deposits or transactions made into this account in Labuan amounted to
RM2,675,090. Out of these, 16 deposits were via ‘cash sale-cigarette’
between 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2011.
[16] He said that he had interviewed one Toh Kah Tiong, who is the son
of the second respondent, and the elder brother of the Toh Kah Ming who
is the manager of the first respondent. He said Toh Kah Tiong told him that
Toh Kah Ming had instructed Toh Kah Tiong to bank in RM68,800 into the
account of the first respondent being the proceeds from the sales of cigarettes
which he received from a person from Brunei but he did not know where the
sales were carried out.
[17] He said from his investigation the first respondent had transferred
several big sums of money from this account in Labuan into the accounts of
the third, fourth and fifth respondents, for example the sum of RM366,630
into the bank account of the fourth respondent (see para. 18 of his first
affidavit). He said the 1st respondent had transferred a total of RM1,044,480
into the bank accounts of the third, fourth and fifth respondents between
2009 and 2011. He said there was no explanation for these transfers or the
purposes for these transfers.
[18] The PP submitted that based on the transactions concerning these bank
accounts, the respondents did not and could not explain why the accounts did
not tally with the buyers’ account and statements. It was submitted that if the
sales were conducted in Labuan, as the respondents had contended, the
evidence showed that the payments were made outside Labuan via cash
deposit slips made in Miri.
[19] The IO believed that from his investigation the first respondent had
exported or sold ‘Malaysia Duty Not Paid’ cigarettes from Labuan via cash
sales or fictitious sales to unknown buyers in Malaysia. He said these sales
were outside Labuan because the proceeds from the sales were paid in Miri
and Kota Kinabalu. The PP submitted that the acts of the respondents in
failing to pay tax for the sales conducted outside Labuan had contravened the
provisions of s. 135(1)(g) Customs Act and therefore an offence under s. 4(1)
of Act 613. The PP submitted that this is a case of smuggling.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

[20] The PP submitted that it relied on documentary and circumstantial
evidence and that it had established its case against the respondents. The PP
submitted that the applicant only need to show that there was a link between
the properties seized with the predicate and AMLATFA case in order to
establish this application and that it has done so on a balance of probabilities,
also referring to s. 56(4) of Act 613.

H

[21] The PP further submitted that by virtue of s. 119 of the Customs Act,
the burden of proof was on the respondents to show that the respondents did
not commit the offence as alleged by the applicant.

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

685

[22] The respondents submitted that it was the duty of the prosecution to
prove on a balance of probabilities that the monies in the various bank
accounts of the respondents seized were the subject matter of or used in the
commission of an offence under s. 4(1) of Act 613.
[23] The respondents submitted that the first respondent is a private
company with the second to fifth respondents being the shareholders and
directors; that the first respondent did not have any third party or parties who
have directly or indirectly invested sums of monies in it; and that the 1st
respondent’s business was purely selling duty free liquor and cigarettes in
Labuan.
[24] The respondents submitted that Toh Kah Ming had affirmed an
affidavit opposing the application stating that the goods at all times were sold
in Labuan and Langkawi, both duty free zones. The respondents referred to
s. 155(1), s. 158, s. 163B(1)(a) and s. 163B(1)(b) of the Customs Act that no
import duty or export duty into Labuan and Langkawi shall be payable and
that under s. 73(a) of the Sales Tax Act no sales tax shall be payable upon
any taxable goods imported into Labuan or transported into Labuan. The
respondents submitted therefore they did not contravene the Customs Act.
[25] The respondents submitted that the respondents’ case was supported
by the investigation of the IO in para. 6 of the IO’s first affidavit where he
said that from his investigation the first respondent either sold the cigarettes
in Labuan or using a Customs Form 8 via an associate company Orion Nova
in Langkawi. The respondents submitted that the investigation of the IO
confirmed the respondents’ contention that the cigarettes were sold in
Labuan and Langkawi.

F

G

H

I

[26] The respondents submitted that the prosecution was not able to prove
that the sales occurred outside Labuan. It was submitted that under Act 613
no presumption could be inferred from the deposits or payments made into
the bank accounts of the first respondent in Labuan, which were made from
outside Labuan, meant that the sales were therefore made outside Labuan
and subject to duties or taxes. It similarly submitted that no such
presumption could be inferred from the cash sales that the sales were
therefore made outside Labuan.
[27] It was submitted that in the absence of such presumptions, it was
incumbent on the prosecution to show actual evidence that the goods were
sold outside Labuan. The respondents submitted that the prosecution has
failed to do so against the respondents and the application to forfeit the
properties in the bank accounts of the respondents should be dismissed.
[28] In prayer 1(i) of the application, the PP applied to forfeit the sum of
RM195,573.67 in the first respondent’s bank account no. 3-0659180-25 at
Public Bank, Labuan. This sum was seized by the IO on 21 September 2012
under s. 50(1) and pursuant to a notice of seizure under s. 51(1)(a) of Act 613
(see exh. ‘AT1’ annexed to the second affidavit of the IO). This exh. 1



686

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

referred to the first respondent’s bank account no. 3-2 0659180-25 at Public
Bank and the fifth respondent’s bank account no. 1-2067980-14 at Public
Bank. It did not state or refer to the sum of RM195,573.67 or any sum to
be seized.
[29] The IO did not exhibit any bank statement or document nor produce
any evidence to establish that this sum of RM195,573.67 was in fact in the
first respondent’s bank account no. 3-0659180-25 at Public Bank, Labuan as
at 21 September 2012 which could be seized or could be forfeited. The IO
did not explain why he included the fifth respondent’s bank account No. 12067980-14 at Public Bank in this notice of seizure. He also did not explain
the connection between these two accounts which he had seized under ‘AT1’.
[30] The IO also did not explain whether there was any connection
between the first respondent’s bank account no. 3-0659180-25 at Public
Bank, Labuan and the third respondent’s bank account no. 37560035192 at
Hong Leong Islamic Bank, because both accounts purportedly contained
exactly the same sum ie, RM195,573.67 or whether it was a coincidence (see
para. 5(1) of the IO’s second affidavit). Again the IO did not exhibit any bank
statement to establish that this sum was in these two bank accounts.
[31] In respect of prayer 1(ii) of the application, the IO did not exhibit any
bank statement to establish that the sum of RM12,763.98 was in fact in the
first respondent’s bank account no. 515120-201858 at Malayan Banking,
Labuan on 21 September 2012 which could be seized or could be forfeited
(see ‘AT2’).
[32] Based on paras. 8, 9 and 10 of the IO’s first affidavit, the IO did not
refer to and there was no evidence of any transaction or connection between
the first respondent’s bank account no. 3-0659180-25 at Public Bank, Labuan
and the first respondent’s bank account no. 515120-201858 at Malayan
Banking (‘Maybank’), Labuan. He did not explain why he seized or wanted
to forfeit the money in this Maybank account belonging to the first
respondent. He also did not explain the connection between this Maybank
account of the first respondent and the Maybank account belonging to the
fourth respondent which he seized together as stated in ‘AT2’.
[33] Similarly, the exhibits marked as ‘AT1’ to ‘AT8’ annexed to the
second affidavit of the IO merely referred to these bank accounts to be seized
without setting out the monies or sums which he had referred to in his
affidavits and whether these sums were in fact in these bank accounts. The
IO did not exhibit or produce any bank statements or documents to establish
that these monies or sums were in the 23 bank accounts belonging to the
third, fourth, and fifth respondents and which could be seized as at 21
September 2012 or which could be forfeited in this application. Without
such documents to support his allegations or statements in his affidavits,
there was no basis for the IO or PP to justify the seizures or forfeitures.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

687

[34] It was not in dispute that these sums or proceeds were from the sales
of cigarettes and liquors. The question is did the respondents sell these
cigarettes in contravention of the Customs Act or were engaged in money
laundering which entitled the PP to seize and to forfeit the sums in these bank
accounts? The PP had contended that the first respondent had sold cigarettes
outside Labuan. However there was no allegation that the second, third,
fourth and or fifth respondents had sold cigarettes outside Labuan.
[35] It should be noted that the PP did not set out and did not exhibit any
bank account of the second respondent. The PP did not seize any bank
account of the second respondent and has not applied to forfeit any money
in any bank account of the second respondent. He did not lead any evidence
that the second respondent was involved in selling duty free cigarettes or
involved in smuggling of duty free cigarettes or that he was involved in
money laundering. There was no explanation why the second respondent was
included in this application. There was no basis for the second respondent
to be included in this application and the PP’s application against the second
respondent ought to be and is hereby struck out.
[36] Although the PP contended that based on the documents exhibited that
the cigarettes were sold outside Labuan, it did not lead any direct evidence
that the first respondent and or the other respondents had transported or
exported duty free cigarettes from Labuan which were sold in Miri or Kota
Kinabalu. It did not lead any evidence that the cigarettes were sold in
Malaysia, exclusive of Labuan and Langkawi. It did not lead evidence that
these sales were intended to evade customs or import duty.
[37] From the affidavits and documents exhibited, the PP could not
establish that these cigarettes were sold in Miri or Kota Kinabalu or in
Malaysia, exclusive of Labuan and Langkawi. There was also no evidence
to substantiate the submissions of the PP that based on the payments made
in Miri that the cigarettes were sold in Miri or Kota Kinabalu.
[38] In the modern business world, payments can be made or banked in or
transferred from any bank account or any part of the world for transactions
or sales or purchases made in another part of the world, at the convenience
of the parties to the transactions or at the convenience of the payer and payee.
The sales and purchases of goods, not in respect of duty free cigarettes
transported from Labuan, can be transacted or made in Kuching and the
payments made in Miri. Similarly payments can be made in Miri or Kota
Kinabalu for the sales and purchases of duty free cigarettes transacted or
made in Labuan.
[39] The PP did not refer to any provisions or regulations under the
Customs Act or any legislation that duty free cigarettes sold in Labuan must
be paid in Labuan or cannot be paid for in Miri or elsewhere. Similarly the
PP did not refer to any Bank Negara regulations or directives that duty free
cigarettes sold in Labuan must be paid in Labuan or cannot be paid for in
Miri or Kota Kinabalu.



688

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

[40] The more important aspect of the sales and purchases was whether
they were carried out in Labuan ie, whether the cigarettes were sold and
delivered to the purchasers in Labuan. If the cigarettes were delivered by the
first respondent to the purchasers in Labuan, obviously the sales were made
in Labuan and the first respondent could not be subject to customs duty on
the sales.
[41] The PP did not lead any evidence and there was no evidence that the
cigarettes in the 16 transactions described as ‘cash sale-cigarette’, which the
IO said were paid for in Miri, were sold or delivered to the purchasers
outside Labuan or in Miri or in Kota Kinabalu. It did not lead any evidence
and there was no evidence that the 82 payments or payments made into the
bank account no. 3-0659180-25 of the first respondent in Labuan were from
the sales of duty free cigarettes transported from Labuan and delivered and
sold in Miri or Kota Kinabalu. It did not lead any evidence and there was
no evidence that the 82 payments made into the bank account of the first
respondent in Labuan were from the proceeds of sales of duty free cigarettes
transported from Labuan and delivered and sold in Miri or Kota Kinabalu.
[42] Further, in respect of the sum of RM68,800 paid into the first
respondent’s bank account in Labuan on 1 October 2010 via the first
respondent’s account at Public Bank, Miri, the PP submitted that it had
reason to believe that the sales occurred outside Labuan. Again this
submission was not supported by evidence. There was no provision in the
Customs Act against any sale outside of Labuan. Section 155(1)(b) provides
that no export duty shall be payable upon any goods exported from Labuan.
However if the goods were imported or transported to Malaysia from Labuan
or Langkawi, then s. 155(1)(c) provides that import duty shall be payable
upon all dutiable goods transported to the principal customs area from
Labuan or Langkawi to all intents as if such transportation to the principal
customs area were importation into Malaysia.
[43] The IO had affirmed that Toh Kah Tiong had said that Toh Kah Ming
had asked him to assist to collect this sum from a person from Brunei for the
sale and purchase of cigarettes but Toh Kah Tiong was not sure where the
sale took place because he was not involved in the business of the first
respondent. Toh Kah Tiong had said this person from Brunei paid this sum
to him in Miri which he then paid into the account of the first respondent
in Labuan. There was no evidence to the contrary.
[44] In this particular sale, again the PP did not establish that the duty free
cigarettes from Labuan were sold in Malaysia. The PP did not establish that
these cigarettes were exported from Labuan into Malaysia and were therefore
subject to duties in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act. The
PP did not establish that the sale involved the smuggling of these cigarettes
from Labuan into Malaysia. The PP did not establish that the cigarettes were
not sold in Brunei. It also could not disprove that the cigarettes were
exported from Labuan to Brunei and sold in Brunei.

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I



[2015] 1 CLJ
A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

PP v. Billion Nova Sdn Bhd & Ors

689

[45] Based on the statements of Toh Kah Tiong recorded by the IO, an
inference could be drawn that the cigarettes were exported from Labuan to
Brunei and sold in Brunei because it was paid for by a person from Brunei.
If that was the case then no export duty was payable upon the cigarettes
exported from Labuan and sold in Brunei. This would contradict the
contention of the PP that the cigarettes were sold in Miri. The PP has failed
to prove that the proceeds of RM68,800 from the sale of cigarettes had been
obtained as a result of or in connection with an offence under s. 4(1) of Act
613 or under the Customs Act.
[46] In prayer 1 (iii) to (xxv), the PP applied to forfeit the sums in the 23
bank accounts of the third, fourth and fifth respondents who were the
shareholders and directors of the first respondent. The PP submitted that the
third, fourth and fifth respondents did not explain why so much monies were
paid into their accounts by the first respondent and whether these payments
involved money laundering or were derived from unlawful activities.
[47] Toh Kah Ming in her affidavits had explained that these were dividend
payments to the third, fourth and fifth respondents who were the
shareholders and directors of the first respondent.
[48] The balance sheet of the first respondent as at 30 June 2010 showed
that the revenue for the year amounted to RM10,268,112.60 including cash
sales of cigarettes of RM8,124,963.40, the retained profits amounted to
RM2,966,884.61 and RM1,100,000 were paid out as dividends to the
shareholders (see exh. ‘AT4(a)’ of the first affidavit of the IO). The balance
sheet of the first respondent as at 30 June 2011 showed that the revenue for
the year amounted to RM6,900,152.35, the retained profits amounted to
RM3,420,619.42 and RM1,600,000 were paid out as dividends to the
shareholders (see exh. ‘AT4(b)’ of the 1st affidavit of the IO).
[49] These documents were exhibited by the PP and would explain the
several payments into the bank accounts of the third, fourth and fifth
respondents as dividends. The PP did not adduce any evidence to the
contrary. These documents produced by PP would contradict the contention
of the PP that these payments were for the purposes of money laundering or
were the proceeds of unlawful activities and raised doubts on the contentions
of the PP and the case of the PP against the respondents.
[50] The IO did not affirm that he is or was an accountant or an expert in
accounts or auditing or accounting or forensic accounting. The IO did not
connect with each ‘cash sale-cigarette’ or each transaction or sale of
cigarettes, which he referred to in his affidavits, to each smuggling of
cigarettes or unlawful sales of cigarettes or which were in contravention of
the Customs Act. The PP did not exhibit any report by any accountant or
expert to trace or connect the entries in the ledgers or accounts with any
smuggling of cigarettes or unlawful sales of cigarettes or that these proceeds
or payments or dividends were derived from unlawful activities or for money



690

Current Law Journal

[2015] 1 CLJ

laundering. The IO did not produce any report from the Inland Revenue or
Tax Department that the respondents had evaded income tax or other taxes
which contravened any law. There was no report by Public Bank, Maybank,
Hong Leong Bank or Bank Negara or any other banks that these bank
accounts or that the proceeds in these bank accounts involved money
laundering.

A

B

[51] As stated above, the PP could not show on a balance of probabilities
that duty free cigarettes were transported from Labuan or Langkawi and were
delivered or sold in Miri or Kota Kinabalu or in other regions in Malaysia.
The PP could not show that there were smuggling of cigarettes from Labuan
into Miri or Kota Kinabalu in contravention of the provisions of the Customs
Act. The PP could not show that these payments for the cigarettes sold and
paid into the account of the first respondent at Labuan were proceeds from
unlawful activities. The PP could not show that these transactions or
payments into the bank accounts of the third, fourth and fifth respondents
were proceeds from unlawful activities and not payments as dividends.

D

[52] It should be noted that the respondents had not been charged for any
offence nor convicted for any offence under the Customs Act. Therefore
s. 119 of the Customs Act is not applicable to reverse the burden on the
respondents to show that they did not commit the offence or were involved
in money laundering under s. 4(1) of Act 613.

E

[53] On the affidavits and documents, the PP has failed to establish on a
balance of probabilities that the respondents were involved in money
laundering or in unlawful activities or that the proceeds in these bank
accounts were or are the proceeds from unlawful activities or for the
purposes of money laundering. For the reasons given, the application to
forfeit these monies or sums in these 25 bank accounts is hereby dismissed.
The freezing or seizures of these accounts are hereby set aside. Each party
to bear their own costs in this application.

C

F

G

H

I

