MALAYSIA
IN THE HIGH COURT IN SABAH & SARAWAK AT SRI AMAN
CRIMINAL APEAL NO: 42-01-99-I (SG)
AMAT BIN ENGGE & SULAIMAN BIN CHUNDI
vs.
PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
IN OPEN COURT
THE 7TH DAY OF MARCH 2000
CRIMINAL LAW AND PROCEDURE - Rape - Appeal against
conviction and sentence
JUDGMENT
Introduction
Amat Bin Engge (“1st accused”) and Sulaiman bin Chundi (“2nd
accused”) were both on 19 June 1999 convicted by the Sessions Court
of the offence of rape under s. 376 of the Penal Code and were each
sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment and one stroke of the rottan.
They were jointly tried on separate charges that they on 1 October
1998 each raped an Indonesian called Nurjanah Binti Munsir (“the girl”).
The Evidence
On 1 October 1998 the girl was traveling in a bus from Bintulu
headed for Kuching when the bus was stopped by policeman manning
a road block at a certain road junction near Lubok Antu. This was at
1



about 9.00 pm. A policeman boarded the bus to inspect the passports
of the passengers. The girl was using the passport of another person
called Marianti but the girl had her photograph pasted on the
passport; it was provided by a pimp called Eric. The girl became a
prostitute.

Another

girl

passenger

was

Lasmina

Notodihatjo

(“Lasmina”) who also used someone’s else passport. Both passports
had by this time expired. The girl and Lasmina disembarked from the
bus as ordered by the policeman and were taken to a police tent set up
by the road side. The bus left without them. The girl had earlier
entered Sarawak through Tebedu using a border pass which entitled
her to remain for a week but she overstayed and was supplied the said
passport without knowing its expiry date. She then went to Bintulu
where she became acquainted with Lasmina. The following narration
of the events are disputed by the two accused but I will set them out
as told by the girl and I will thereafter consider the disputes
surrounding those evidence.
While in the police tent, four policeman told them that they
could be imprisoned for seven years for using expired passports and
while inside the prison, they would be beaten, their heads would be
shaved and they have to exercise every morning. The girl then asked
the policeman what she should do to return to Sanggau, Indonesia.
One policeman then said since Sanggau was very near they could send
them back on condition that both girls had sex with them. Both the
girls refused and they said they would rather die. The policeman then
said that if they wish to die or go to prison for seven years, they
w o u l d b e s e n t t o t h e p o l i c e s t a t i o n th e n e x t d ay at 8.00 am. The

2



policeman continued persuading them to have sex with the added
promise that they would be paid and sent back safely to Indonesia.
The girls said they finally agreed to have sex in view of the threat of
imprisonment and of going back to their agent. It was at this time that
the 1st accused, who was one of the policeman who had demanded
sex, took the girl to a bush and had sex. After that and upon reaching
the tent, the 2nd accused, another of the policeman who demanded
sex, took the girl to the same bush and had sex with her. According to
Lasmina, the 2nd accused had sex with the girl first while the girl
said it was the 1st accused. The 1st accused gave the girl 5,000 rupiah
but the policeman did not keep their promise to send them back to
Indonesia and instead they put them on another bus which was
heading for Serian and thereafter Kuching. They were supposed to get
off at Serian which is near the Tebedu border with Indonesia but
instead they proceeded to Kuching, stopping at the bus station. At the
bus station they were met by two Chinese male who took them to the
Indonesian Consulate at around 10.00 am, 2 October 1998. It was
only on 5 October 1998 that the two girls went to lodge a police
report accompanied by an officer of the Indonesian Consulate. It was
only on 10 October 1998 that the girl was examined by a doctor who
found she had intercourse before which is of no value since she had
admitted to being a prostitute.
The 1st accused and 2nd accused denied having sex with her.
Thus, it was her words against that of the two accused. Mr Rosli bin
Gapor, learned counsel for the two accused, referred to the various
contradictions of the evidence of the girl which make her evidence

3



less preferable to that of the two accused. It is to those evidence that I
will now deal with.
The girl when examined in chief had, with regard to why she
agreed to have sexual intercourse with the two accused, said this:The policeman further threatened us to have sexual intercourse with
them. They also persuaded us to have sexual intercourse with them with
the promise of paying us a large sum of money and sending us safely to
Indonesia. Faced with their threats and our reluctance to go back to our
agent, Lasmina and I agreed to have sexual intercourse with the
policeman. We agreed to have sexual intercourse with them because they
promised to send us back to Indonesia ...
... I did not resist during the sexual intercourse because I have already
agreed. In actual fact I was not willing to have sexual intercourse even
though I had agreed. After the sexual intercourse both the policeman and
I put back our own clothing ...
From the time the policeman threatened us and to the time I had sexual
intercourse with two policeman, I was satisfied because they had
promised to send us back to Indonesia and gave us money. From the time
the policeman demanded sex and to the time we had sexual intercourse, I
did not feel scared anymore. I was not willing to have sex but I was
satisfied with their promise of sending us back to Indonesia ...
... I told Hewan that I was scared when I had sexual intercourse with the
two policeman ...
... I told Insp Dora that I have sexual intercourse with them because they
promised to send us back to Indonesia after the sexual intercourse. I told
her that I did not want to have sexual intercourse with them willingly.

4



When cross-examined, the girl gave the following answers to
the various questions:Q:

You consented to the sexual intercourse hoping to get something in
return ie, to go back to Indonesia and that they would give you
money and not because of the threat.

A:

Agree.

Q:

Without the promise of being sent back to Indonesia and being
given money, you would not have consented to have sexual
intercourse even if they were policeman.

A:

Agree.

Q:

After the sexual intercourse one of the policeman did give you
money.

A:

Yes.

In my view, the evidence thus far as a result of examination-inchief and cross-examination would support the conclusion that the
girl agreed to have sexual intercourse because of the promise to send
her back to Indonesia and also because of the promise to pay her
money. Whatever that can be regarded as a threat did not feature at all
in her consideration of whether to agree to sexual intercourse.
However, there was an attempt to change that evidence when the girl
was re-examined and that process, the relevant part, went like this:Q:

In cross-examination you said that you consented to have sexual
intercourse with the accused because you hope to be sent back to
Indonesia and at that time it was not because of being threatened.
At the time you agreed to have sexual intercourse with both the
accused and at the time of having the sexual intercourse, did the
threat still (linger) in your mind.

A:

Yes.

5



Q:

Since the threat still existed in your mind, does that affect you in
having intercourse with the accused.

A:

Yes.

Q:

Why did you say in cross-examination that you consented not
because of being threatened.

A:

I was still thinking about the question at the time of answering the
question meaning I was still thinking about the answer to the
question.

Q:

What was the exact answer you wanted to give.

A:

The consequence of the threats were still there when I consented to
have sexual intercourse.

The court also followed through with more questionings that
elicited answers to the effect that the threat had induced the consent,
viz:Q:

You further testified in xd in chief that you asked the policeman
what you should do to get back to Indonesia, one of them said that
they could send you back provided you had sex with them, you
refused and said that you would rather die than have sex with them.
But later you changed your mind and end up having sex with them
what made you changed your mind.

A:

Because the policeman had promised to send us back to Indonesia
safely ...

Q:

If the policeman had not threatened you at all. If right from the start
they asked you to have sex with them on the promise of sending you
back to Indonesia safely and pay you for it, would you have agreed.

A:

No.

It becomes important to determine what really induced the
agreement of the girl to have sexual intercourse in view of the
apparent contradictions in the evidence of the girl that I have just set
6



out. On the one hand, the girl said it was the promise of money and of
being sent back to Indonesia that she agreed to have sexual
intercourse. On the other hand, the girl said it was the threat of being
sent to the police station the next morning or to her agent that made
her agreed to have sex. The learned Sessions Court Judge was of the
view that the girl was put in a dilemma of being sent to prison or to
her agent unless she agreed to have sex with the two accused. The
court was further impressed by the answer to the court’s question she
gave that if she had not been threatened from the beginning with
punishment and even if the two accused had at the very beginning
promised to send her back with money, she would not have consented
to having sexual intercourse. That shows, according to the court, the
lack of consent. This begs the question of why having sex with the
policeman should be so disagreeable when the girl had been
prostituting herself while in Sarawak before she met the two accused?
The learned Sessions Court Judge appears to have the question in
mind when she provided the answer in these words:Mindful of the fact that the complainant was a woman with varied sexual
experience, I do not think she was a woman of loose character who
simply sold her body to the policeman for mere promise of being sent
home and for money. I believe that she would not have concede to sexual
intercourse if the police had not put her in the predicament with their
threat of sending her to prison. The complainant does not impress me to
be a scheming and vindictive woman who was seeking to get even with
both accused who, after having sexual intercourse with her, failed to
fulfill their promise. She impressed me to be a truthful witness. I believe
her when she said that in giving her consent she was doing it unwillingly
and both threat and promise had influenced her decision. I therefore find

7



as of fact that though the sexual intercourse took place with the
complainant’s consent it was not given willingly and has been vitiated by
duress.

So, the Sessions Court Judge was of the view that she was not
“a loose woman” even though she had varied sexual experience. The
Sessions Court Judge was also of the view that the girl would not
“simply sold her body to the policeman for mere promise of being
sent home and for money”. However, the evidence showed that she
had worked as a prostitute even though she had the intention of
working as a housemaid. The only support for the conclusion that the
girl was not a loose woman can only be the deduction from the
evidence that the agent in Sarawak had forced her into prostitution
though she did not say so and the girl was guarded more or less round
the clock with no freedom of movement and there was no opportunity
for escape. But there remains the unanswered questions of why the
girl did not complain at all that she was held against her will by the
agent and forced into prostitution and why she did not attempt to run
away during the many bus trips if in fact she was unwilling to be a
prostitute. Apart from that the girl did not mind using a fake passport
and that is indicative of a person with no scruples. The ease with
which she moved around Sarawak with a faked passport is testimony
of her liberty. The many opportunities that avail but not taken by her
to complain of her alleged confinement belies her unwillingness to
prostitute herself. All these the learned Sessions Court Judge had
failed to take into account when she concluded that the girl is not of
loose character and would not simply exchange sexual intercourse for
money and a trip back to Indonesia.

8



The contradictions in the girl’s evidence which I have already
set out and which I will set out shortly were the basis for the
contention that the girl is not a truthful witness when compared to the
evidence adduced by the defence. This leads me to consider whether
the court had considered the defence adequately and that is the main
thrust of the appeal argued by Mr Rosli Bin Gapor, learned counsel
for the two accused. The evidence of the defence are these.
The 1st accused was in charge of the road block on that day with
his shift of duty starting at 3.00 p.m. and ending at 11.30 pm on the
same day. He had received instruction from his superior officer to
detain and interview illegal immigrants who possessed invalid
documents to make sure that they go back if they intended to go back
to their country. Particulars of the persons must be recorded in a book
provided. The 1st accused had with him three policeman, one of
whom was the 2nd accused. None of them had any raincoat with them.
The rest of his evidence reads:On the night in question Constable Mohktar brought two girls named
Wati and Marianti from the bus to see me. Constable Mohktar told me
that these girls possessed expired passport. He further informed that their
passports were held by the bus driver. When I asked why their passports
were held by the bus driver, Mohktar replied “runding-runding”. The
words “runding-runding” were said by the bus driver and Mohktar just
conveyed it to me. I asked the two girls to sit down and interviewed
them. I asked them whether they knew their passports had expired and
they replied that they knew. I further asked why they allowed the driver
to hold their passports, they replied that they did not know because it was
the agent who asked the driver to hold the passports. I also asked what
they did in Bintulu and Miri, they replied that they worked in karaoke

9



pub, entertained customers and stayed in hotel. I also asked why they did
that kind of job, they replied that they had no choice and they worked for
money. I asked them if they wanted to go back to their country, they
replied that they wanted to see their agent, Eric. I further asked if they
really wanted to go back and they replied that they did. Based on what
they said, I was not sure if they really wanted to go back. During the
interview the bus driver informed me that the bus wanted to leave, I told
them to be patient because we were doing our job. The bus driver kept
telling us that the bus was leaving, Constable Mohktar then said that let
them leave, since the bus driver only thought for himself but not the
policeman who were discharging their duty. After hearing what Mohktar
said, the bus left leaving the two girls in the police shed. It was raining at
that time. Quite some time later, the time I cannot remember, Biaramas
bus came and I asked the driver to send the two girls back. The driver
agreed. I did not at any time touch the girl. I did not do untoward things
to them. I also did not say anything to them.

The 1st accused had recorded the details of the two girls. The
prosecution had led evidence through Inspector Ibrahim Kawi that he
had given instruction to officers who conduct road blocks to detain
illegal immigrants with invalid passports or without documents who
enter Sarawak and report them to the nearest police station and for
those who were leaving Sarawak, to release them after their
particulars were recorded but to ensure that they really leave the
country. The 1st accused said he released the two girls because he
was satisfied that they were going to leave the country.
As for the 2nd accused, he said he stopped the bus which carried
the girls and brought them to a shed when the rain started to fall. He
did not talk nor do anything to the two girls. The girls were

10



interviewed and later left in a bus.
Evidence was also led by the defence that the two accused did
not bring with them any raincoat and that they were not wet at all
when the next shift took over from them at about 11.30 pm. The girl
had given evidence that the sexual intercourse had taken place while
it was raining.
The Contentions
1.

Corroboration.

2.

The Sessions Court Judge was of the view that Lasimina
provided corroboration for the story of the girl without stating
which aspect of it. For the evidence of Lasmina to qualify as
corroboration it must connect the accused with the offence
although it is not necessary that there should be independent
confirmation of every material circumstances and her evidence
must not only make it safe to belief the crime was committed
but must in some way reasonably connect or tend to connect the
two accused with it by confirming in some material particular
the testimony of the girl (Yap Ee Kong & Anor v. PP [1981] 1
MLJ 144 FC). Lasmina had testified that she saw the two
accused took the girl by turn to a bush some distance from the
shelter. If her evidence is to be believed then it would provide
corroboration of the fact that the girl was taken to the bush as
alleged by the girl which is a material particular because the
rape was alleged to have taken place immediately thereafter. If
that was what the Sessions Court Judge had in mind then she

11



was correct in stating that Lasmina provided corroboration. In
any event she has warned herself of the danger of convicting on
uncorroborated evidence but was nevertheless of the view that it
was safe to do so since she found the girl to be credible.
3.

The credibility of the girl.
How was it that the girl was wet all over as a result of the

sexual intercourse when the two accused were not if really sexual
intercourse had taken place? That was the question posed by learned
counsel for the two accused in the course of his contention that the
girl is not a credible witness, apart from his reference to the
contradictory answers of the girl concerning the question of consent
to the sexual intercourse. The girl had said that this was because the
two accused were wearing respectively a raincoat and a jacket which
protected them from the rain. However, two policeman, PW10 and
PW11, called by the prosecution, one in the party that handed over
their shift to the two accused while another was in the party that took
over from them, testified that the two accused did not have with them
any raincoat or jacket nor any bag to hold such item. PW11 also said
that he did not see any wet cloth on the body of the two accused when
he took over the shift at 11.30 pm. This is how the Sessions Court
Judge considered the issue, viz.
I shall touch on this issue of raincoat and jacket which had been greatly
canvassed by the defence in an attempt to raise doubt on the
complainant’s credibility. The complainant testified in chief that when
she had the sexual intercourse with the 1st accused in the bush, she put
down a towel on the ground for them to lie on, the 1st accused was
wearing a uniform. In the case of the second accused, the 2nd accused put

12



his raincoat on the ground and he was also wearing a uniform. This has
never been challenged by the defence in cross-examination. In crossexamination, the complainant stated that the ground was wet because it
was raining. She was never asked the extent of the rain - was it drizzling,
or it was a down pour. DW1, DW3 and DW4 claimed that it was raining
heavily after the two Indonesian ladies were brought to the shed and they
stayed inside the camp. This was never put to the complainant in crossexamination. Yet the defence made a big issue on heavy rain when they
testified. If the sexual intercourse could not have taken place because of
heavy rain, why was it never put to the complainant. Not only it was not
put. The defence has also failed to challenge that there was never any
raincoat when the complainant testified that the 2nd accused put his
raincoat on the ground. In view of this, one can only conclude that the
allegation of heavy rain by the defence is an after-thought.
As for PW10 Corporal 112993 Joshua Anak Julius Intai’s testimony in
this respect, he said that he did not notice anyone carrying a jacket or
police raincoat. This is vague here. It could mean that either he did not
see or he was not paying attention. As for PW11 Cpl. 48119 Dunggau
anak Balak, he testified that no one was wearing a jacket or carrying a
jacket. None was wearing a wet cloth. He was not asked whether they
might be carrying a bag.
Defence also submitted that if what the complainant said about her being
wet over was true, how come the bus driver PW4 did not notice the
clothing of the two Indonesian ladies. In this respect, the testimony of
PW4 is that he did not notice the facial expression of Lasmina and he
could not remember her clothing. PW4 could not even identify the
complainant, plainly it speaks of him having no impression of her.
There is no evidence that the two Indonesian ladies were detained at the
shed sometime around 9.00 pm and sent off by the subsequent bus at
11.00 pm sometime before Shift “A” took over at 11.30 pm based on
Ex.P4. D.W.1 and D.W.4 said the interview took place for about half an

13



hour, the sexual intercourse could not be very long because the
complainant said that both accused asked her to be quick. In other words,
after the alleged sexual intercourse, there was waiting in the shed, giving
ample time for the wet cloth to dry to a small extent. That explained why
PW11 did not see any wet cloth on both accused.

As for the conclusion that the girl was never challenged when
she described what the two had worn and how the 2nd accused had
used a raincoat when having sexual intercourse with her, I am of the
view that this is a serious misdirection because the defence has put to
her that there was never any sexual intercourse which should be
sufficient to contest everything the girl said about how the sexual
intercourse had taken place, how the two accused were, during that
process, dressed and how the 2nd accused had used a raincoat. If that
was not enough then surely it suffice when it was also put to her that
she made up the whole story to avoid prosecution for using an invalid
passport. It must be remembered that the defence need not crossexamine a witness in detail and a few questions will generally suffice
(R v. Velayuthan [1935] MLJ 277). It must also not be forgotten that
the other witnesses of the prosecution had adduced evidence that the
two accused did not have any raincoat or jacket and that their clothing
was not wet when another shift took over duty from them. Therefore,
there was plenty of indication that the defence would raise the issue
of the raincoat or jacket and the defence would rely on the fact that
the clothing of the two accused was not wet at all. That it was raining
came from the evidence of the girl and there is no duty on the party of
the defence to establish how heavy the rain was. In any event, it was
the girl’s evidence that she was all wet which is some indication as to

14



the state of the rain. This is the opportune moment to remind myself
of the recent decision of Alcontara a/l Ambross Anthony v. Public
Prosecutor [1996] 1 MLJ 209, particularly the following passages, at
p. 217-219.
We now turn to consider three further grounds for our holding
that the appeal was bound to succeed.
First, the judge had misdirected himself as regards the burden of
proof, especially the burden on the defence. More particularly, as will
appear from the following passages in his grounds of judgment, the
judge had criticized the defence for not having put to the
investigating officer, the name of Che Mat, the latter’s telephone
number, and address of place of abode. This is how the judge put it:1. Furthermore, if the character of Che Mat existed then it is incumbent on
the defence to put this question to the investigating officer ...
2. It is settled law that the defence, by its failure so to put such questions to
the prosecution witnesses, ought not be allowed to raise such issues at the
defence stage.
3. Prosecution witnesses were also not challenged as to whether the police
had taken steps (at any rate, not fatal to the prosecution witnesses) to
check on the telephone number given in D14 (the cautioned statement) or
to locate Che Mat’s house with the assistance of the accused and this
became the only issue during the defence case.

Speaking generally, in a criminal trial, the whole point and purpose
of the defence having to put its case to such of the prosecution
witnesses as might be in a position to admit or deny it, is to enable
the prosecution to check on whether an accused’s version of the facts

15



is true or false, and thus avoid the adverse comment, that the defence
is a recent invention - in other words, ‘kept up its sleeve’, as it were and revealed for the first time when the accused makes his defence
from the witness box or the dock, thus detracting from the weight to
be accorded to the defence. However, failure on the part of the
defence to put its case, as aforesaid, can never, by itself, relieve the
prosecution of its duty of establishing the charge against the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt.
At this stage, we would interpolate to remark - though we are
digressing somewhat from the point concerning the onus of proof that the judge went so far as to hold ‘that the defence by its failure so
to put such questions to the prosecution witnesses ought not to be
allowed to raise such issues at the defence stage’. In this, he was
clearly wrong, since it is settled law that, although a court may view
with suspicion a defence which has not been put to the appropriate
prosecution witnesses who might have personal knowledge of the
points at issue, the court is still bound to consider the defence,
however weak, and to acquit if not satisfied that the prosecution has
discharged the burden of proof which rests upon it. We are supported
in this by the case of Lister v. Quaife [1983] 1 WLR 48 decided by
the Court of Appeal in England. May LJ in his judgment at p. 54 of
the report said this:We have not found this at all an easy case but in the end we have come to
the clear conclusion that the answer really lies in a proper appreciation of
what s 9 in fact achieves. As I have already said, this is that the contents
of the statements read are evidence in the case just as if, and only to the
extent as if, the makers of those statements had been called as witnesses

16



in the trial and had given the evidence contained in the statements. If that
had happened on the hearing before the King’s Lynn justices in this case,
and there had been no cross-examination about the possibility of mistake,
or their evidence had not been challenged in any way, then when the
defendant went into the witness box no doubt strong comment could have
been made that nothing had been put to the witnesses about the
possibility that the defendant might indeed have been able to and did buy
the dress somewhere else, in Portsmouth in particular, on 2 July 1981.
Although any such comment by the prosecutor would have had substantial
force and might well have led the justices to view the defendant’s
evidence with a degree of scepticism, the position remains that the
burden throughout was on the prosecutor, and although the proper
procedure of putting a defence case to prosecution witnesses had not been
followed, it would have been open to the justices, having heard all three
witnesses, to have said: ‘Well, it may be that that procedure laid down by
Marks & Spencer was what should have happened, and it may have
happened in at least the majority, if not every other case concerning a
dress of this nature, but we have also seen the defendant. She has given
evidence. We cannot say that her evidence cannot be true, and in those
circumstances there must be a doubt in our minds and accordingly we
must acquit.

Stephen Brown J said at p. 55:This case has very many unsatisfactory features, but I have great
sympathy with the justices in the position into which they were put, not
through their own fault. In the end, however, it is they who had the duty
of weighing the evidence which had been properly admitted before them
and the decision of fact was entirely for them. Whilst it may be that this
court might itself have come to a different conclusion, none the less it
seems to me to be impossible to interfere with the decision of the
justices, which was fully within their competence. Therefore, I agree with

17



May LJ that this appeal must be dismissed.

To resume our discussion regarding the important point of
misdirection as regard the burden of proof, especially the burden on
the defence, we must point out, with respect, that it was wrong for the
judge to have criticized the defence for having failed to put to the
investigating officer, the name of Che Mat, or the latter’s telephone
number or his place of abode, for the simple reason that these
particulars had been disclosed in the cautioned statement of the
appellant made the day after his arrest so that the police had all the
time in the world to check their veracity. That being the case, the
onus was on the prosecution to check on whether the appellant’s
version of the facts, as they appeared in his cautioned statement and
to which we have referred, was true or false. In other words, the onus
was upon the prosecution to disprove this important part of the
appellant’s version of the facts. The defence were, therefore, under no
duty to put the matters aforesaid to the investigating officer, having
regard to their prior disclosure in the cautioned statement. In holding
to the contrary, the judge had undoubtedly overlooked the material
portions of the cautioned statement touching on Che Mat, reversed the
onus, and placed it on the defence, so that on this further ground also,
the conviction had to be quashed.
The learned Sessions Court Judge with regard to the question as
to why the clothes of the two accused were not wet proffered the
answer that the sexual intercourse was over quickly and there was
ample time for the clothes to dry while the two accused were under
the shed and before PW.11 arrived. The waiting time at most was two

18



and half hours but this has to be further discounted for the interview
which took half an hour forgetting the time it took for the sexual
intercourse which was said to be over very quickly. That leaves only
two hours for the clothes of the two accused to dry. This leads me to
ask where is the evidence to say that the clothes can dry in two hours
time without any sunlight? There is none. If anything, it is a notorious
fact that clothing had to be strung out in the sun for several hours
before they can be dried. There is here a serious misdirection in the
finding of fact because there is no evidence to support the conclusion
that the clothes on the two accused had dried by the time PW11
turned up.
Another reason which the learned Sessions Court Judge gave for
disbelieving the two accused was the fact that the 1st accused had
decided to set the girl free without ensuring that she is going to leave
the country. The learned Sessions Court Judge was of the view that
the mere fact that a bus was heading a direction could give rise to a
conclusion that a passenger on board was headed for Indonesia was
not a reliable basis for such a conclusion. Unreliable it may be, there
is no guide-line set by the authority as to how to ascertain whether an
Indonesian was headed home or otherwise. The 1st accused cannot be
said to be untruthful just because he exercised a discretion which was
granted to him, to decide whether an Indonesian was headed home or
otherwise.
Even where the court views with suspicion a defence which has
not been put to the appropriate prosecution witnesses the court is still

19



bound to consider the defence, however weak, and to acquit if not
satisfied that the prosecution has discharged the burden of proof
which rests upon it (Alcontara a/l Ambross Anthony v. Public
Prosecutor). Therefore, even if the court disbelieved the two accused
when they said they did not have sexual intercourse with the girl, the
court has still to consider whether there is on a balance of
probabilites any doubt cast on the case of the prosecution. This means
considering all the evidence again, this time for the purpose not of a
prima facie case but of a case beyond reasonable doubt. This should
lead the learned Sessions Court Judge to ask:1.

Whether, in view of the denial by the two accused of having sexual
intercourse with the girl, the girl had plausibly explained why she
at one instant said she had agreed to have sex because of the
promise to be sent home and of payment before changing the story
in re-examination. It will be recalled that the girl had attempted an
explanation in these words: “I was still thinking about the question
at the time of answering the question meaning I was still thinking
about the answer to the question.” That statement does not explain
at all the contradiction. This should bring about a doubt as to
whether she was forced into having sexual intercourse rather than
having agreed voluntarily upon being promise a trip home and the
payment of money. Particularly so, when she did not try to run
away or report to the authority after she was allegedly confined
against her will for the purpose of prostitution when so many
opportunities avail themselves; this should make the court wary of
her truthfulness. Even more so when she had no qualm in moving
around Sarawak using a fake passport.

2.

Whether any doubt had been cast on the reliability of the evidence
of the girl and thus in the case by the prosecution as a result of the
evidence of prosecution other witnesses to the effect that the two
accused were not
20



wearing and did not have any raincoat or jacket which contradicts
that of the girl.
3.

Whether any doubt had been cast in the prosecution case by the
fact that the prosecution other evidence had shown that the
clothing of the two accused were not wet at all because if the two
accused did not have any raincoat or jacket on but just their
uniform when having sexual intercourse, their clothing should be
wet just like those of the girl.

In my view, the learned Sessions Court Judge could not after
considering those questions but come to the conclusion that a doubt
has been cast on the case for the prosecution.
Conclusion
In the premises, the appeal is allowed and the conviction and sentence
set aside. In its place will be an order that the two accused be
discharged and acquitted.
Justice Datuk Ian HC Chin

For Appellants/Accused:

Mr Rosli bin Gapor

For Respondent Public Prosecutor:

Mr Ahmad Jubir Bin Jantan
Deputy Public Prosecuto

21

