[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MALAYA AT IPOH
IN THE STATE OF PERAK DARUL RIDZUAN, MALAYSIA
[CRIMINAL TRIAL NO: 45A-010-12/2015]
TIMBALAN PENDAKWA RAYA

... PENDAKWA RAYA

Lawan
1)

MUHAMMAD AZHAR MUHAMMAD ZAINI

2)

AHMAD ASRAF MOHD NASIR

3)

MUHAMMAD NAIM MUHAMMAD ZAINI
... TERTUDUH-TERTUDUH

CRIMINAL LAW: Dangerous drugs - Trafficking - Cannabis
weighing 4540g - Selling of dangerous drugs - Drugs were sold to
agent provocateur - Drugs contained in a bag handed over by accused
to agent provocateur - Whether ingredients of trafficking proven
beyond reasonable doubt
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE: Defence - Denial - Offence of drug
trafficking - Defence denied sale of drugs - Accused alleged he
collected bag from someone and did not check contents of bag but
believed it contained traditional medicine - Whether accused raised
reasonable doubt in prosecution's case
CRIMINAL LAW: Common intention - Trafficking - Accused merely
passengers in car - Co-accused alleged accused had knowledge of
drugs - Whether safe to conclude that accused had common intention
to traffic drugs based on bare oral assertion of co-accused

1



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

EVIDENCE: Agent provocateur - Admissibility of evidence Corroboration - Offence of drug trafficking - Drugs were sold to
agent provocateur - Agent provocateur abetted commission of offence
- Whether there was a presumption that agent provocateur was a
creditworthy witness by virtue of s. 40A(1) of Dangerous Drugs Act
1952 - Whether evidence of agent provocateur could be accepted
without any corroboration
[First accused found guilty and sentenced to death. Second and
third accused were acquitted and discharged.]
Case(s) referred to:
Abdul Salim Abdul Razak v. PP &Another Appeal [2014] 1 LNS 346
CA (refd)
Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85 FC (refd)
Chai Tee Keiong v. PP [2013] 1 LNS 975 CA (refd)
Mohd Azlan Mat Nor & Anor v. PP [2014] 1 LNS 350 CA (refd)
Muniandy & Ors v. Public Prosecutor [1966] 1 LNS 110 FC (refd)
Public Prosecutor v. Saimin & Ors [1971] 1 LNS 115 HC (refd)
Tengku Mahmood v. Public Prosecutor [1974] 1 LNS 176 HC (refd)
Wan Marzuki Wan Abdullah v. PP [2008] 4 CLJ 631 CA (refd)
Legislation referred to:
Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, ss. 2, 39B, 40A, (1), First Schedule

2



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

JUDGMENT
[1]

On 25 August 2015, a black bag containing substance suspected
to be cannabis (exhibit P7) was recovered from a car bearing
registration number PLF 2482. The occupants in the car were the
three accused persons. The first and third accused are siblings.
The three accused were subsequently charged as follows:
“Bahawa kamu, pada 25 Ogos 2015 jam lebih kurang
2.00 petang di tepi jalan berhampiran gerai makan No.
Lot 1042, Batu 19, Kuala Dal, Padang Rengas, Kuala
Kangsar di dalam Daerah Kuala Kangsar, di dalam
Negeri Perak Darul Ridzuan di dalam mencapai niat
bersama kamu telah telah mengedar dadah berbahaya
iaitu sejumlah berat 4540 gram Cannabis dan dengan
itu kamu telah melakukan satu kesalahan di bawah
Seksyen 39B(1)(a) Akta Dadah Berbahaya 1952 yang
boleh dihukum dibawah Seksyen 39B(2) Akta yang
sama dibaca bersama seksyen 34 Kanun Keseksaan”.

Case for the prosecution
[2]

The prosecution called 7 witnesses to prove its case. The
evidence was that on 17 August 2015, on information received,
ASP Fikri (SP7) set up an undercover sting operation to arrest a
suspected supplier of drugs. He instructed narcotics officers
Koperal Jafri @ Sany bin Othman (“Jafri”) (SP4) and ASP
Suffian to pose as prospective buyers of cannabis from the
supplier. Jafri and ASP Suffian proceeded to Taiping the same
day, and were introduced to the informer by one Inspector
Sahidi.

3



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

[3]

Jafri testified that evening the informer took him and ASP
Suffian to Selama, Kedah, and introduced them to the first
accused who referred to himself as “Weng”. There were some
preliminary negotiations between him and the first accused for
about 20 minutes for the purchase of cannabis. After exchanging
phone numbers with the first accused, he and ASP Suffian
returned to Taiping.

[4]

The next morning, the first accused messaged Jafri about the
availability of drugs. Later, the same day the first accused
telephoned him to obtain his confirmation to purchase cannabis.
Jafri confirmed his interest and inquired whether the price could
be reduced. The first accused agreed to reduce the transaction
price to RM 1,900.00 a block, if a larger quantity was
purchased.

[5]

According to Jafri, he met the first accused again two days later,
on 19 August 2015, at the latter’s request. The meeting took
place at about 3 pm at a roadside food stall in Taman Bunga
Raya at Kuala Kangsar. The third accused had accompanied the
first accused to this meeting but did not come inside the stall.
Jafri said he and the first accused further negotiated the sale of
cannabis by the first accused to him. They agreed on the
quantity and price. The first accused agreed to sell 10 blocks of
cannabis to Jafri for RM 19,000.00. Jafri left after informing the
first accused that he would contact him as soon as was able to
raise the monies.

[6]

On 24 August 2015, the first accused telephoned Jafri again to
inquire when the transaction could take place. Jafri asked the
first accused for 2 days to raise the agreed sum of RM
19,000.00.

4



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

[7]

On 25 August 2015, the first accused contacted Jafri and
informed him that he would only be able to deliver 5 blocks of
cannabis at RM 1,900.00 each block. Jafri agreed to this and
requested the first accused to come to the Kuala Kangsar bus
station with the drugs.

[8]

Jafri then notified ASP Fikri of the delivery that was to take
place later that day. A briefing was held by ASP Fikri that was
attended by Jafri and the other narcotics officers involved in this
sting operation. Jafri and ASP Suffian then proceeded to the bus
station in a car bearing registration number WYJ 7984 to await
the first accused. The first accused arrived at 1.30 pm, in a
Proton Saga bearing registration number PLF 2482 with the
second and third accused in the car with him.

[9]

Jafri requested the first accused to follow his car and drove to a
food stall in Kampung Kuala Dal, where ASP Fikri and team
were waiting in ambush to apprehend the suspected drug
trafficker. Jafri parked his car along the stall. The first accused
parked his car next to his car. Jafri invited the accused persons
for a drink at the stall. Later, Jafri asked the first accused if he
had brought the “barang” and the latter replied that it was in the
car. They exited the food stall about ten minutes later and
walked to where PLF 2482 was parked as Jafri wanted to
examine the “barang”. The second accused informed him that
the cannabis was in the bag.

[10] The first and second accused, opened the driver and front
passenger car doors, respectively, and got into the car. The third
accused opened the rear right door behind the driver and picked
up a black bag from the foot rest area and placed it on the rear
passenger seat and unzipped the black bag. He then walked to
the rear left door and sat behind the second accused. Upon

5



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

satisfying himself that the bag contained cannabis, Jafri gave the
pre arranged signal to the ambush team that laid in wait. ASP
Fikri his team surrounded PLF 2482 and the accused persons
were arrested.
[11] In cross examination, it was put to Jafri that it was untrue that
he had negotiated with the first accused to buy cannabis. It was
also put to him that his version of the facts was not true as the
only time the first accused had met Jafri in Kedah was on 17
August 2015. The informer, a person called Sham, had taken
him to meet Jafri. At this meeting, Sham expressed the desire to
buy cannabis from the first accused but the latter informed Sham
that he was not involved in drugs. Jafri categorically denied
these allegations.
[12] It was further put to Jafri that the black bag was transported to
the food stall at Kampung Kuala Dal at the behest of Sham. The
bag had been handed to the first accused by one Siva for the
same to be handed to Sham. The first accused was led to believe
by Sham there was traditional medicine in the black bag. Sham
was present at the food stall. Jafri denied these allegations.
[13] It was also put to Jafri that on 25 August 2015, he never met the
accused persons at the Kuala Kangsar bus station nor requested
them to follow his car to the food stall. It was suggested to Jafri
that he was present in the vicinity of the food stall not because
of any pre arranged meeting with the first accused to deliver
drugs but because he had received information from Sham, that
there were drugs in PLF 2482 and he was waiting there with the
ambush team. Jafri emphatically denied all these allegations.
[14] The next witness was ASP Fikri. He confirmed that he had
instructed Jafri to pose as a drug buyer to buy drugs from a
suspected drug supplier. He also confirmed that on 25 August
6



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

2015, he and his men positioned themselves in the vicinity of
the food stall to await the drug supplier. Jafri had been
instructed to bring the drug supplier to the food stall.
[15] ASP Fikri said upon receiving the pre arranged signal from
Jafri, he and his team surrounded the car in which the accused
persons were seated and instructed them to step out. They
complied. He seized the black bag that was on the rear seat of
the car. He opened it in the presence of the three accused
persons and found 5 blocks of compact dried plant which he
suspected was cannabis. The first accused fainted when he
introduced himself as a police officer.
[16] All the items were seized and the accused persons brought to the
Kuala Kangsar Police Station. There he lodged a police report
and issued a search list to the accused persons. He marked the
exhibits by putting his signature on them. The exhibits, which
included four handphones seized from the accused persons, were
handed to the investigating officer (SP8) Nurleyana Diana binti
Stephenson.
[17] The investigating officer testified that she made her own
markings on the exhibits. She then packed the drug exhibits into
a box and sealed it with the PDRM seal. The exhibits were
handed to chemist Gunalan Varatharajan (SP3) who analysed the
exhibits and found them to contain a total of 4540 grams of
cannabis, a dangerous drugs as listed under the First Schedule
and section 2 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 (“the Act”).
[18] In cross examination, the investigating officer admitted that she
did not send the phones for forensic examination or investigate
the incoming and outgoing numbers in the mobile phones. It was
put to the investigating officer that if had she done so, it would
shown the accused persons were innocent carriers who had no
7



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

knowledge of the contents of the bag and that the black bag had
been handed to the first accused by one Siva for the same to be
delivered to Sham.
[19] The other two prosecution witnesses were Zamzul bin Md Zam
(SP5) and Mohamad Sham bin Mohd Noor (SP6). Zamzul bin
Md Zam was the registered owner of PLF 2482. He had let out
his car to Layar Lagenda Service for two years under a written
contract from 5 September 2013 to 5 September 2015. Mohamad
Sham, a clerk with Layar Lagenda Service confirmed this fact
and added that on the night of 24 August 2015, at about 10 p.m,
the third accused had hired PLF 2482 for two days at a daily
rental of RM 150.00. The third accused had no cash and had
charged motorcycle KBF 7569 as security for the rent due.
[20] That in substance was the evidence for the prosecution case.

8



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

Ingredients of the offence
[21] It was the prosecution’s case that the accused persons had
pursuant to a common intention sold the drugs to Jafri. The
prosecution relied on section 2 of the Act to prove that the sale
of the drugs constituted trafficking. Section 2 defines trafficking
as follows:
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
trafficking includes the doing any of the following acts,
that is to say, manufacturing, importing, exporting,
keeping, concealing, buying, selling, giving, receiving,
storing, administering, transporting, carrying, sending,
delivering, procuring, supplying or distributing any
dangerous drug otherwise than under the authority of
this Act or the regulations made under the Act.
[22] In Wan Marzuki bin Wan Abdullah v. Public Prosecutor [2008]
4 CLJ 631 the Court of Appeal held that actual delivery of the
drugs to the agent provocateur was not essential to prove
trafficking by sale. It was observed in this regard:
In our judgment whether there is actual delivery is a
question of fact and of degree. It depends on the particular
facts on an individual case. Varying fact patterns may be
envisaged. An accused (as vendor) may physically hand
the drug to the buyer (usually an agent provocateur). Or he
may place it near the buyer. Or he may make it readily
available for the buyer to take control of it as happened in
Sa’ari Jusoh. Or he may place it in a vehicle or a room and
hand the keys to the same to the buyer, in all these cases
there is actual delivery. There may be cases where delivery
is constituted by more than one act. Take this very case.

9



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

The acts of the appellant in bringing the drug to the petrol
station and placing it near PW5 when taken cumulatively
constitute actual delivery.
[23] In Mohd Azlan bin Mat Nor & Anor v. Public Prosecutor [2014]
5 MLJ 375 and Abdul Salim bin Abdul Razak v. Public
Prosecutor and Another Appeal [2014] 5 MLJ 729 the Court of
Appeal held that where the prosecution case against an accused
is premised on trafficking by selling under section 2 of the Act,
possession need not be proved.
[24] It was thus incumbent on the prosecution to prove:
i.

that the substance found in the black bag was
dangerous drugs within the definition of section 2 of
the Act ; and

ii.

that the black bag of drugs was delivered to Jafri at
the R&R by the accused persons in pursuance of a
sale reached earlier that morning with the first
accused ; and

iii.

that the accused persons had common intention to
sell the drugs mentioned in the charge to Jafri.

Burden on the prosecution
[25] In Balachandran v. PP [2005] 1 CLJ 85, the Federal Court
explained the burden of proof on the prosecution in these terms:
Section 180(1) makes it clear that the standard of proof on
the prosecution at the close of its case is to make out a
prima facie case ... A prima facie case is therefore one that
is sufficient for the accused to be called upon to answer.

10



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

This in turn means that the evidence adduced must be such
that it can be overthrown only by evidence in rebuttal. ...
A litigating party is said to have a prima facie case when
the evidence in his favour is sufficiently strong for his
opponent to be called on to answer it. A prima facie case,
then, is one which is established by sufficient evidence,
and can be overthrown only by rebutting evidence adduced
by the other side. ... In order to make a finding either way
the court must, at the close of the case for the prosecution,
undertake a positive evaluation of the credibility and
reliability of all the evidence adduced so as to determine
whether the elements of the offence have been established.
... Thus if the accused elects to remain silent he must be
convicted. The test at the close of the case for the
prosecution would therefore be: Is the evidence sufficient
to convict the accused if he elects to remain silent? If the
answer is in the affirmative then a prima facie case has
been made out. ...
Finding at close of the prosecution case
[26] As regards ingredient (i), the evidence of the chemist was not
challenged and it established that the substance contained a total
of 4540 grams of cannabis, which is a dangerous drug as listed
under the First Schedule and section 2 of the Act. The complaint
by defence that there was a gap in the evidence of the chemist
was baseless as the chemist in his evidence had testified that the
drugs were under his control from the time he received it till he
completed the analysis.
[27] As regards ingredient (ii), the defence contended that the
prosecution had failed to adduce credible evidence to show there

11



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

was a sale of drugs to Jafri. It was said that the evidence of Jafri
should not be accepted in the absence of phone records to show
there was communication between him and the first accused as
alleged by him. I found no merit in this submission. Jafri was an
agent provocateur and by virtue of section 40A(1) of the Act,
there was a presumption that he was a creditworthy witness and
evidence could be accepted without any corroboration. In any
event, his evidence was corroborated by ASP Fikri.
[28] As regards ingredient (iii), the evidence showed that the first
accused had agreed to sell cannabis to Jafri. The third accused
rented a car. All three accused brought the drugs to the
Kampung Kuala Dal food stall to deliver it to Jafri. The drugs
were shown to Jafri. These facts showed that the accused
persons had a common intention to traffic in drugs and had acted
in concert pursuant to a prearranged plan.
[29] On a maximum evaluation of the evidence, I found at the end of
the prosecution case that there was credible evidence to show
that the drugs were delivered to Jafri by the three accused
persons pursuant to a sale reached earlier between the first
accused and Jafri on the morning of 25 August 2015.
[30] I therefore ruled that the prosecution had made out a prima facie
case and called on the accused persons to make their defence.
Case for the Defence.
[31] All three accused elected to give evidence on oath. All three
accused denied the prosecution’s version of the facts. They
asserted that they were innocent parties who had no knowledge
of the contents in the black bag. They emphatically denied that

12



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

they had rented the car to undertake an assignment to deliver the
drugs to Jafri.
[32] The first accused, aged 24 gave evidence to this effect. He lived
in Selama, Kedah and wanted to go sightseeing. He asked his
brother, the third accused to rent a car. He and the third accused
then drove to Penang. They reached the second accused’s house
at about 2 in the morning and stayed the night there. At about 9
am the next morning, whilst he was having breakfast with the
other two accused, he received a phone call from Sham who
informed him that his father (Sham’s father) was unwell and
requested his assistance to collect a bag of traditional medicine
from one Siva and for the same to be delivered to him in Kuala
Kangsar. The first accused was told to wait for Siva’s call.
[33] Siva telephoned the first accused a little later and requested him
to pick up the medicine from the R&R at Juru. According to the
first accused, on reaching the said R&R, he phoned Siva and the
latter asked him to wait near the toilets. He waited alone for
Siva who showed up with the black bag and handed it to him. He
took the black bag and placed it on the rear seat of the car where
the third accused was asleep. The second accused who was
seated in the front passenger seat was busy playing with his
phone and did not ask what was in the black bag. The third
accused woke up after a while and inquired about the black bag
and he told him “kamu tidak perlu tahu”.
[34] According to the first accused, he then drove to Kuala Kangsar
to deliver the bag to Sham. On reaching Kuala Kangsar, he
contacted Sham, who asked to meet him at the Kampung Kuala
Dal food stall. Sham sent him the location of the food stall to his
phone. On reaching the stall, they parked the car and entered the
stall and ordered food and drinks. At this point, he noticed Sham

13



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

seated in one corner of the food stall. He walked up to him and
informed him that the black bag was in the car. Sham requested
him to finish his meal and to wait for him in the car.
[35] The first accused denied that Jafri was at the food stall and he
and the other accused had spoken to the latter.
[36] Continuing with his testimony, the first accused said that after
the three of them had eaten, they got into the car and waited for
Sham to collect the bag. Suddenly, a group of men surrounded
their car and instructed them to step out and arrested them. The
police unzipped the black bag on the rear seat. He fainted when
the police told him there were drugs in the bag. The first
accused explained that he fainted because he had read in news
papers that the sentence for drug trafficking is death.
[37] The first accused accepted that he had met Jafri on 17 August
2015. According to him it was Sham who took him to meet Jafri.
Sham and he had been friends since young. In the course of
conversation, Sham inquired if he could sell cannabis to him. He
informed Sham that he was not involved in drugs. The first
accused maintained that he never met or contacted Jafri again.
[38] I turn now to the evidence of the second accused. He was 25
years of age. He testified that he only knew the first and third
accused were visiting him when they called him close to
midnight on 25 August 2015 to ask if they could stay at his
place. He confirmed that the first accused received a phone call
the next morning whilst they were having breakfast. After the
phone call, the first accused drove them to R&R Juru. The first
accused parked the car and got out to meet someone. Later he
came back with the black bag and said they were going to Kuala
Kangsar for sightseeing. The second accused said he took over
the wheels after they had cleared the Kuala Kangsar toll.
14



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

[39] The first accused informed him they were going for lunch and
gave him directions to go to the Kampung Kuala Dal food stall.
On reaching the place, he parked the car and the three of them
entered the stall. His evidence as to what happened thereafter
was consistent with the evidence to the first accused. He
vehemently denied that he had said to Jafri that “ganja ada
dalam beg” as alleged by Jafri. He maintained that he had no
knowledge of the contents of the black bag. He also denied that
he had come there in furtherance of a prearranged plan with the
first and third accused to deliver the drugs to Jafri.
[40] The third accused was 22 years of age. His version of the events
was consistent with that of the first and the second accused. He
denied that on the afternoon of 19 August 2015, he had
accompanied the first accused to Kuala Kangsar to meet Jafri at a
food stall at Taman Bunga Raya. When asked to explain why he
had rented the car, he explained that he did so as the first accused
did not posses a driving license. The first accused had asked him
to rent a car to go sightseeing in Kuala Kangsar. He denied any
knowledge of drugs in the black bag. He only knew there were
drugs when the police unzipped the bag and showed them.
[41] The third accused also denied that on 25 August 2015 he had
lifted the black bag from the rear foot rest and placed it on the
rear seat for Jafri and unzipped it for Jafri to see. He also denied
that he had come there in furtherance of a prearranged plan with
the first and second accused to deliver the drugs to Jafri.
Burden on the Defence
[42] The burden of proving the guilt of an accused is with the
prosecution. On the other hand, burden on the defence is to raise

15



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. The term reasonable
doubt was elucidated in PP v. Saimin & Ors [1971] 2 MLJ 16:
The following definition of “reasonable doubt” is often
quoted:
“It is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs and depending upon moral
evidence is open to some possible or imaginary doubt.
It is that state of the case which after the entire
comparison and consideration of all the evidence
leaves the minds of the jurors in that condition that
they cannot say they feel an abiding conviction to a
moral certainty of the truth of the charge.”
It has again been said that “ ‘reasonable doubt’ is the
doubt which makes you hesitate as to the correctness of the
conclusion which you reach. If under your oaths and upon
your consciences, after you have fully investigated the
evidence and compared it in all its parts, you say to
yourself I doubt if he is guilty, then it is a reasonable
doubt. It is a doubt which settles in your judgment and
finds a resting place there.” Or as sometimes said, it must
be a doubt so solemn and substantial as to produce in the
minds of the jurors some uncertainty as to the verdict to be
given. A reasonable doubt must be a doubt arising from the
evidence or want of evidence and cannot be an imaginary
doubt or conjecture unrelated to evidence.
Analysis of defence evidence
[43] At the end of the defence case, the Court is required to examine
all the evidence presented in this case to determine whether it

16



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

has raised any doubt in favour of the accused persons. The Court
must be mindful that in a criminal trial it is not for the defence
to prove anything and that all that is required of it is to tender
an explanation that is reasonable and probable and which casts a
doubt either as to the truth of the prosecution case or as to the
guilt of the accused.
[44] There are two conflicting versions here. First, the prosecution’s
version that there was a sale of drugs to Jafri, who had acted as
an agent provocateur. Next, the defence version that there was
no sale. The black bag was brought to the Kampung Dal food
stall to be delivered to Sham in the belief it contained traditional
medicine.
[45] The testimony of the accused persons was diametrically opposed
to that of Jafri and ASP FIkri which raised the issue of
credibility. In approaching issues of credibility it is always
necessary to bear in mind the tests that a trier of fact should
ordinarily apply when evaluating oral evidence. One of the tests
is motive. The presence or absence of motive on the part of a
witness is a relevant consideration which a trial court should take
into account. Another material consideration are probabilities of
the case. If a witness’ evidence is improbable, this would be a
good reason for rejecting his evidence or according it very little
weight. By the same token, where the evidence of a witness
accords with the probabilities of the case, it would be a serious
misdirection on the part of the trial court to give it little or no
weight on grounds of credibility. See Tengku Mahmood v. Public
Prosecutor [1974] 1 MLJ 110 and Muniandy & Ors v. Public
Prosecutor [1966] 1 MLJ 257.
[46] It is with these principles in mind that I evaluate the evidence in
this case.

17



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

[47] It cannot be gainsaid that if I believe the testimony of Jafri and
ASP Fikri then, the defence of the first accused must necessarily
fail, for, on their version, it was abundantly clear that there was
sale of drugs.
[48] Having considered both versions, I was entirely satisfied that
Jafri and that of ASP Fikri were witnesses of truth. Having seen
them give their evidence, and having observed their demeanour,
especially under cross-examination and having tested it against
the totality of the evidence I was satisfied that they were telling
the truth that there was a sale of drugs to Jafri. Both Jafri and
ASP Fikri had no reason to falsely implicate the first accused. It
was true that Jafri was an agent provocateur but the testimony of
such a witness by reason of section 40A of the Act is not to be
presumed unworthy of credit by reason only of his having
attempted to abet or abetted the commission of an offence by
any person under section 39B if the attempt to abet or the
abetment was for the sole purpose of securing evidence against
such person, as was the case here.
[49] The gist of the defence of the first accused appears to be that he
was being a Good Samaritan and doing an act of kindness by
collecting the black bag from Siva. He did not check the
contents as he believed it was traditional medicine. This
explanation was difficult to accept as the first accused had
alleged that when he met Sham and Jafri on 17 August 2015,
Sham had expressed a desire to buy cannabis. If indeed, this was
true, this ought to have raised a suspicion in his mind that there
could be drugs in the black bag. Next, and crucially, the bag was
handed to him in circumstances that ought to have aroused his
suspicion. He had reached the R&R before Siva. On his own
version, Siva arrived about an hour later. It was odd that Siva
requested him to wait near the toilets instead of just bringing the
18



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

black bag to him. It is therefore impossible to give the slightest
credence to his explanation that he thought there was traditional
medicine in the black bag.
[50] Further, the fact that the first accused had no monies even to pay
a cash deposit to rent a car was significant. It will be recalled
that a motorcycle that belonged to a third party was given as
security to the car rental company until the rental due was
settled. It was curious and unconvincing that someone without
even the financial ability to pay the requisite deposit would rent
a car to go sightseeing. How did the first accused propose to pay
for the sightseeing expenses or raise the monies to pay the car
rental on returning from his trip. He proffered no explanation in
this regard. Given the impecuniosity of the first accused, it was
difficult to believe and I did not accept his evidence that the car
was rented for the purpose of sightseeing. It was clear on the
evidence that the car was rented for the purpose of delivering
the drugs which the first accused had agreed to sell to Jafri.
[51] Applying the test formulated in PP v. Saimin & Ors [supra (43)]
I find that the explanation given by the first accused has failed
to raise a reasonable doubt in the prosecution’s case. On the
other hand, I am entirely satisfied, upon the evidence as a
whole, both oral and otherwise, that the prosecution has
established the charge of trafficking in dangerous drugs against
the first accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
[52] That brings me to the defence of the second and third accused.
They maintained that they did not know there were drugs in the
black bag and had tagged along in the car in the belief they were
going sightseeing. They were merely passengers in the car.
Obviously, this would be a lie if Jafri’s version that the second
accused had told that the drugs were in the black bag and the

19



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

third accused had unzipped the bag for him to see the drugs was
true.
[53] Having considered the evidence of the second and third accused,
I do not believe them that they did not know there were drugs in
the car. I prefer and accept Jafri’s testimony on this issue. The
question that then arises is whether it would be safe to conclude
that they had the common intention to traffic in the drugs based
on the bare oral assertion of Jafri.
[54] It is trite law that an agent provocateur’s evidence requires no
corroboration and that the second and third accused can be
convicted on the uncorroborated evidence of the agent
provocateur if the court accepts the truth of the evidence. The
desirability of some corroboration was recognised by the Court
of Appeal in Chai Tee Keiong v. Public Prosecutor [2014] 2
MLJ 246. It was held:
It is salutary to say that the evidence of SP3 as an agent
provocateur requires no corroboration and the appellant can
be convicted on the uncorroborated evidence of SP3. But,
notwithstanding s. 40A of the DDA, the courts still look for
some sort of corroboration. Thus, in Public Prosecutor v.
Mohamed Halipah, the High Court also found that the
evidence of the agent provocateur was corroborated by
Inspector Ariffin and the cautioned statement of the accused.
Again, the Federal Court in Pendakwa Raya v. Mansor bin
Mohd Rashid & Anor [1996] 3 MLJ 560 noted that even if the
character called Cholar was an agent provocateur, there was
sufficient supportive credible evidence of the offence of
trafficking. Finally, in Public Prosecutor v. Padi bin
Abdullah [1989] 2 MLJ 60, the High Court held that the
evidence of the agent provocateur was amply corroborated by

20



[2017] 1 LNS 164

Legal Network Series

members of the police personnel, namely PW2, PW3 and
PW6.
[55] In the absence of any supporting evidence, in my view, it would
not be safe to convict the second and third accused. In the result,
I conclude that the prosecution had not discharged its burden of
proving the charge against the second and third accused beyond
reasonable doubt.
Conclusion
[56] For the foregoing reasons, I found the first accused guilty and
convicted him for drug trafficking. He was sentenced to death in
accordance with the law. The second and third accused were
accordingly, acquitted and discharged.
Dated: 24 FEBRUARY 2017
(SM KOMATHY SUPPIAH)
Judicial Commissioner
High Court of Malaya
Ipoh
Date of Decision: 26 JANUARY 2017
COUNSEL:
For the three accused - Naran Singh & Muhammad Farhan Ahmad
Fadzil; M/s Naran Singh & Co
For the public prosecutor - Wan Azimah Yaacob; Deputy Public
Procecutor

21

